(1)

Before The Special Judge,
Cachar at_ Silchar.

Present: Mr. D.Ullah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

Spl(POCSO) Case No. 10 / 2019
u/s 366/376 of the IPC r/w sec.4 of the POCSO Act
The State of Assam

-Versus-
Jia Uddin
beceeeeeees accused person
Dates of evidence : 26.9.19; 24.10.19 & 21.11.19
Date of argument : 21.11.19
Date of judgment: 21.11.19
Appearance:-
For the Prosecution : Miss. B. Acharjee, Id. .Spl.P.P.
For the Defence : Mr. A.Roy. Ld. advocate

JUDGMENT

1. The brief facts of the prosecution case is that the informant

Soyful Ali lodged an ejahar dated 12.3.19 stating that on 5.3.19
(2)
at about 1 pm the accused had kidnapped his minor daughter
and raped her several time and hence this case.
2. Accordingly, on receipt of the ejehar, police registered a
case bing Lakhipur P.S Case No.58/19 u/s 366/376 of the IPC.
Thereafter, on completion of investigation police submitted a
charge sheet against the present accused person u/s 366/376 of
the IPC r/w sec.4 of the POCSO Act and sent up the accused
person to face trial.
3. The Ld. CJM., Cachar, Silchar committed the case to the to
this court . Thereafter, on 8.5.19 this court received the case
record and registered the same as a Spl(POCSO) case. The
accused person namely, Jia Uddin has appeared before this court
and on 28.3.16 after hearing the prosecution and the defence
counsel, this court was pleased to frame charges u/s 366/376 of
the IPC r/w sec. 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused person
and its particular was read over and explained to him to which the
accused pleaded not guilty and stood to face the trial.
4. Thereafter, the trial of this case was commenced , during
which the prosecution examined as many as, 5(five) witnesses ,
which includes the informant the victim of the case. After closure
of the prosecution evidence, the statement of the accused person
u/s 313 of the Cr.P.C is recorded and his plea is of total denial and

he declined to adduce any evidence in his support.

5. Heard the Ld. Spl.P.P and also the Ld. Counsel appearing

for the accused person .
(3)
6. Point for determination:-

(i)Whether on or about the 5.3.19 at about 1 pm the
accused person kidnapped the victim, i.e. the minor daughter of
the informant with intent that she would be compelled to marry
her against her will or in order that she would be forced or
seduced with illicit intercourse or knowing it likely that she would
be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse, as alleged ?

(ii)Whether on the same date , time and place the accused
person committed rape upon the victim , as alleged ?

(iii)Whether on the same date, time and place the accused
person committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim, as
alleged ?

Discussion , Decision and Reasons Thereof :-

7. In this case the prosecution side examined as many as
5(five) witnesses to prove the case.

8. The P.W.1 — Saiful Ali, the informant of the case and he
testified that about 6 months ago , at about 12.30 pm his
daughter i.e. the victim went for tuition at Chutomada, P.S
Lakhipur but she did not return from tuition and accordingly he
searched for her but she was traceless. The P.W.1 further added
that thereafter, he came to know after two days of the
occurrence that the accused Jia Uddin had taken her to Dimapur
and accordingly he lodged an FIR with the Lakhipur P.S. The said
FIR is brought on record as the Ext.1. The P.W.1 also stated that
police arrested the accused and recovered his daughter i.e. the
victim from his possession and thereafter police sent his daughter

to SMCH., Silchar from her medical examination. The P.W.1 also
(4)
stated that at the time of occurrence, his said daughter was a
student of Class X and at that time her age was 16 years.

During cross-examination he stated that his daughter i.e.

the victim went with the accused out of her own accord and
presently his daughter and the accused are living as husband and
wife since the day of the alleged incident. During cross-
examination this P.W.1 admitted that he has no grievances
against the accused at present.
9. The P.W.2 Alkuma Bibi , the wife of the informant and she
stated that about 6 months ago, her daughter , the victim went
out for her tuition and she did not return to their house and they
could not trace her out. The P.W.2 further added that after 10
days , police of Lakhipur P.S handed over her daughter to them
and on being asked , her daughter reported them that she was in
the house of accused Jia Uddin. The P.W.2 further added that at
the time of occurrence her said daughter was a student of Class X
and at that time her age was 16 years.

During cross-examination the P.W.2 stated that her
daughter i.e. the victim went with the accused on the date of
occurrence as per her own will as she was having love affairs with
the accused. The P.W.2 also admitted that presently her daughter
is living peacefully with the accused as his wife.

10. The P.W.3 is the victim of the case and she testified that
the informant is her father . She added that about 9 months ago ,
the occurrence took place at about 12.30 pm. The P.W.3 also
stated that the accused Jia Uddin was planning to go to Dimapur

and she asked him to take her also and accordingly he took her to
(5)

Dimapur . She also stated that he kept her there in his brother’s
house and after two days , he married her and after her
marriage, she stayed for about one week with him. She also
added that thereafter the accused took her to his house at Alipur
Basti under Lakhipur P.S and they came_ to know that her father
lodged a case and accordingly she alongwith the accused
appeared before the Lakhipur P.S and police took her to SMCH for
her medical examination and also to the court wherein her
statement u/s 164 of the Cr.P.C was recorded. The Ext.2 is the
statement.

During cross-examination she stated that after the accused
being released from jail, she has been residing with him in his
house as his wife.

11. The P.W.4-Jashim Uddin and the P.W.5- Saidul Hussain ,
both of them are the reported witnesses and their evidence have
failed to implicate the accused person with the alleged offence .
However, during cross-examination the P.W.4 admitted that the
victim went of her own accord with the accused and got married
and the P.W.5 during his cross-examination also admitted that
there was a love affair between the accused and the victim for
which the victim went out with the accused of her own accord.

12. Appreciating the materials on record, it is found that though
the informant P.W.1 alleged that the accused had kidnapped his
daughter but during his deposiiton before the court had failed to
Support the said version. The victim P.W.3 has also failed to
implicate the accused person with the alleged offence. She has

stated that the accused married her and taken her to his house
(6)
and she lives there as his wife and the said fact is supported by
her mother i.e. the P.W.2, the wife of the informant . On the
other hand , the P.W.4 & 5 in their deposition admitted that there
was love affairs between the accused and the victim for which the
victim went with the accused of her own accord. Though, the
P.W.1 & the P.W.2 have stated in their evidence that at the
relevant time of occurrence the victim was a student of Class X.
From the evidence on record, it is seen that although the father of
the victim i.e. the P.W.1 had stated that the victim was 16 years
of age but no any birth certificate or school certificate are placed
by the prosecution side in respect of the age of the victim. The
victim herself has stated that her age is 19 years and the alleged
occurrence took place on 5.3.19.
13. In view of the above position, I am of the opinion that the
prosecution side failed to prove that the victim is below 18 years
of age at the time of occurrence. That apart, neither the victim
nor any other witnesses have implicated the accused person in
respect of the offence charged against the accused person i.e. the
offence u/s 366/376 of the IPC r/w sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.
14. It is the bounded duty of the prosecution to prove the
necessary ingredients of the offence against the accused person
beyond all reasonable doubt .
15. Upon consideration of all the oral and documentary
evidence on record as discussed above, I have found that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove the charges against the

accused person beyond all reasonable doubt.
(7)
O R DE R

16. Considering the materials available on record, I found that
the prosecution has failed to prove the alleged offence u/s
366/376 of the IPC r/w sec.4 of the POCSO Act against the
accused person present today beyond reasonable doubt. As a
result the accused person namely, Jia Uddin is acquitted and set
at liberty.

Set my hand and seal of this case on the 21* day of
November, 2019.

( Mr.D.Ullah),

Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
Dictated & corrected by me ;

Sessions Judge, Cachar, Silchar.
(8)

APPENDIX

A.Prosecution Witnesses:-
P.W.1-Saiful Alli
P.W.2-Alkuma Bibi
P.W.3-Victim

P.W.4-Jashim Uddin
P.W.5-Saidul Hussain
B.Prosecution Exhibits:-
Ext.1-FIR

Ext.2-Statement of the victim.
C.Defence witnesses :- NIL
D.Defence Exhibits: - NIL
E.Court witness:- NIL.

( Mr.D.Ullah),
Sessions Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.
(9)
