 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 58 (T) of 2018

U/s 10 of the POCSO Act

The State Of ASSAM —__aacaeesacseeseeeeeesenees Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Azad Boraik,
S/o- Lt. Suren Boraik
R/o- Khobang T.E. Simor Line
P.S- Doomdooma
District- Tinsukia, ASSAM a. hee eee eee eeeeeeee eee Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,

Spl. Public Prosecutor .............. For the State
Sri Naba Phukan,
Advocate  —__hinecacecueeevevenees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 27/06/2019

Date of Judgment: 27/06/2019

} UD GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. On 12/10/2018, Robina Karmakar had lodged an ejahar
before police, alleging that on that day at about 6 pm, the
accused Azad Boraik had tried to take her 8 years old
daughter to inside Bojrangpur T.E. in order to commit illegal
sexual act upon her. The informant has also stated that when
the victim resisted and shouted for help, the accused had
beaten her. The informant has stated that the victim girl
managed to escape from the clutches of the accused and had

returned home.

2. During the period of investigation, the victim was
subjected to medical examination. She was also sent to the
court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC. The victim girl
stated before the Magistrate that on the day of occurrence,
the accused had sent her to a shop, but she did not comply
with his request and went to play in the field. The victim girl
has stated that the accused arrived there, forcibly took her to
the garden and beat her. The victim also stated before the
Magistrate that at that time, the accused was drunk and after
beating her, he ran away from that place.
POINT FOR DETERMINATION

3. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether the accused had committed aggravated sexual

assault upon the victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

4. In order to prove the case against the accused, the
prosecution side has examined as many as two witnesses,
including the victim girl. The defence plea is total denial. |
have carefully gone through the prosecution evidences.

5. Here in this case, the mother of the victim girl was
examined first by the prosecution. She has stated in her
evidence that on the day of occurrence, her daughter had
gone to the house of the accused as the mother of the
accused had asked her to come there. The witness has stated
that after sometime, her daughter returned home and at that
time, she was crying. The victim girl has told her mother that
the accused had beaten her. The mother of the victim girl has
stated that she had lodged an ejahar before police and the
ejahar was written by members of students organization and

she had put her thumb impression in the said ejahar.

6. During cross examination, the mother of the victim girl
has stated that the ejahar was never read over to her, before
she had filed it before police.

7. The victim girl has stated in her evidence that on the
day of occurrence, when she had gone to the house of the
accused, after being called by his mother, the accused had
sent her to purchase bidis from the shop and she brought bidis
from the shop accordingly. After handing over the b/dis to the
accused she went to play, but the accused followed her and
beat her.

8. After going through the prosecution evidence, it is clear
on the face of the record that none of the witnesses have
supported the charge of aggravated sexual assault upon the
victim girl. Therefore, there is no necessity for an elaborate
discussion of the prosecution evidence. |, therefore hold that
the prosecution side has failed to prove the offence against
the accused beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

9. In the result, the accused Azad Boraik is found not guilty
and accordingly the accused is acquitted from this case.
Presently, the accused is in judicial custody, so he be set at
liberty forthwith.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
27th day of June, 2019.

(P. J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
A P P EN DI X
PROSECUTION WITNESSES
1. PW1 - Smti Robina Karmakar
2. PW2 - Smti Rita Karmakar
PROSECUTION EXHIBITS
None
DEFENCE WITNESS

None.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
