 

District: Tinsukia

Present: Sri P.J. Saikia,
Special Judge,

Tinsukia

POCSO Case No. 17 (M) of 2016

U/s 4 of the POCSO Act

The State of ASSAM — haa eaceceeeeeeeeeeeeeenees Complainant.
-Versus -
Sri Abu Salam Nand,
S/o- Sri Jothon Nand
R/o- Sorupathar Padumoni Gaon
P.S- Sorupathar
District- Golaghat, ASSAM use eseeaececeeeeeeeenes Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal,
Spl. Public Prosecutor _.......... For the State
Arati Sarmah,

Advocate@  —______iinaecaeeceeceeeeeees For the accused.
Date of Argument: 24/09/2019

Date of Judgment: 01/10/2019

U D GM ENT

PROSECUTION CASE

1. In this case, the 47 year old accused Abu Salam Nand
(herein after referred to as the accused only) is admittedly a
Christian Priest and he has claimed that whenever he prays for
somebody, the said person gets cured of diseases. It is also
an admitted fact that the accused gives holy water to ailing
persons and it cures their diseases.

2 The prosecution case against the accused revolves
around an accusation that he had committed rape upon a
blind minor girl, who was brought to him for regaining her
eyesight.

3. The victim girl was born on 23/01/2001 and she studied
up to class VI and thereafter, in the year 2012, she became
completely blind. In the month of March 2016, Smti
Khageswari Gogoi, who is the mother of the victim girl
informed the mother of the victim girl that one quack had
come to Digboi and he was capable of treating blindness of
the minor girl. Therefore, the mother of the victim girl took her
daughter to the accused for treating blindness of the victim
girl. On the first day, the accused gave some oil and water to
be administered to the eyes of the victim girl. She was again
called on the next day. In this way, the victim girl was called to
the house of the accused for three days. On the last day, i.e
on 21/03/2016, the accused called the victim and her mother,
asking them to come by 6 am. Both the victim and her mother
went to the house of the accused accordingly. Then the
accused took the victim girl into the house, keeping the
mother outside, the accused closed the door of the house.
After about 9/ 10 minutes, the accused opened the door and
asked the mother of the victim girl to take her away.

4. When the mother of the victim girl had entered into the
room to take back her daughter, she found that her daughter
was crying. Her daughter told her that the accused had
touched her breasts after unbuttoning her upper garment. The
victim girl also told her mother that the accused thereafter
disrobed her and committed rape.

5. Then the accused convinced the mother of the victim
that her daughter would be able to see and that is the reason
why the mother of the victim girl did not raise any hue and

cry.

6. After leaving the house of the accused, the victim and
her mother went to the house of Debojita Changmai, who is
the sister of the mother of the victim girl. They told Debojita
Changmai about the occurrence and she _ immediately
informed her husband Prabin Changmai. On hearing about the
incident, Prabin Changmai refused to soft pedal the matter
and he immediately went to the house of the accused. On
reaching there, Prabin Changmai had a heated argument with
the accused and on seeing that incident, many people
gathered there. The accused then tried to run away, but failed.
Instead, he entered into the house and closed the door from
inside and thereby disallowed other people to enter his house.
The Gaon Burha also came to know about the matter and he
informed police over telephone and police came to the place
of occurrence. Thereafter, the mother of the victim girl had
lodged an ejahar before police.

Ps During the period of investigation, on the date of
occurrence itself, the victim girl was subjected to medical
examination and on the next day she was sent to the court for
recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

8. The findings of the Doctor goes like this:-

"Mental state- good. height - 4 feet. Weight - 60 kg,
Teeth - 28 Nos. (permanent). Abdomen - Well developed and
no injury. Breasts- Well developed and no injury. Aerola and
nipples- Well developed and no injury. Scalp hair- Well grown.
Pubic hair Well grown, Axillary hair- Well grown. Labia majora-
Well developed and no injury. Labia minora- Well developed
and abrasion present of size 1x 1/2 cm*. Hymen - Tear present.
Vagina- Well developed and abrasion present in vaginal
introitus of size 1 x 2 cm’. Uterus - Not palpable on bimanual
examination. Vaginal discharge/bleeding- Not present.
Fourchette- Healthy. Injury on the body other than genitals-
Bruises present both inner sides of the thighs of size 3x2 cm?

Radiological examination:-
Wrist joint- fusion is not complete
Elbow joint- fusion is complete

Illiac crest- fusion is not complete.
As per the radiological report, the age of the victim is
assessed between 15- 17 years."

9. Doctor has opined that the injuries found in the private
parts of the victim girl were suggestive of forceful sexual

intercourse.

10. In her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC, the victim girl has
quoted the facts, pertaining to the occurrence.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

11. The only point for determination in this trial, is as to
whether on 21/03/2016 at about 6 am, the accused had

committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim girl?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

12. In order to prove the case against the accused person,
the prosecution side has examined as many as ten witnesses,
including the Doctor, who had examined the victim girl at the
time of investigation and the Police Investigating Officer. The
defence plea is total denial and the accused examined himself
as a defence witness. | have carefully gone through the

prosecution evidences.

13. Considering the nature of the case, | shall first take up
the evidence of the victim girl. She has supported the
prosecution case against the accused in her evidence.

14. During cross examination, the victim has stated before
the defence counsel that she studied up to Class VI and prior
to that in any class, she never failed. The victim stated that on
two days prior to the occurrence, when she had visited the
accused, he did not talk to her. The victim girl has stated that
on the day of occurrence, she was wearing a skirt, top and a
sweater. She has stated that the accused had unbuttoned her
garment and she did not make any hue and cry. The victim
stated that she did not sustain any injuries, while the accused
had committed rape upon her. The victim girl also stated
before the defence counsel that she was made to lie on the
bed before she was raped by the accused.

15. The mother of the victim girl has also supported the
prosecution case against the accused in her evidence.

16. During her cross examination, she has stated before
the defence counsel that the accused lived in a pucca house,
consisting of three rooms and the occurrence took place in the
middle room. The mother of the victim girl has stated before
the defence counsel that at that time many people were
sitting in the hall of the house to meet the accused. The
mother of the victim also stated that she went out of the
house, after keeping her daughter in the middle room. The
mother of the victim has further stated that when her
daughter came out of the room, she found her wearing
apparels in order, but a safety pin on her T-shirt was found
open. The mother of the victim has stated that she inquired
about it from her daughter and then she told her the entire

incident.

17. Now, | shall take up the evidence of Prabin Changmai.
He has stated in his evidence that some tribal organization
had organized a health check up camp near his house and the
victim and her mother had come to that camp for medical
check up. Prabin Changmai has stated that at about 6.10/15
am, the mother of the victim had called him over phone, but
as he was sleeping at that time, he could not picked up the
phone. According to Prabin Changmai, while he was still
sleeping one small boy had come to his house and told him
that the victim was raped by the accused. Prabin Changmai
has stated that he immediately went to the said camp and on
seeing him, the accused tried to run away. Prabin Changmai
has disclosed that the accused had entered into the room and
bolted himself from inside. According to him, he started to
shout at the accused from outside the room. Prabin Changmai
has stated that the victim girl told him that the accused took
her into the room and thereafter, laid down in a bed and
promised her that he was doing something to her for which
she would be able to see. Prabin Changimai has quoted the
victim as informing him that the accused had removed her
undergarments and committed rape upon her. Prabin
Changmai has stated that when police arrived at the place of
occurrence, then only the accused came out of the room.

18. The witness Prabin Changmai did not state before
police that one small boy had informed him about the
occurrence. This fact was confronted to Prabin Changmai at
the time of his cross examination. He also did not state before
police that the accused tried to run away from the camp and
thereafter closed himself into a room. This fact was also
confronted to Prabin Changmai by the Ld. defence counsel.

19. The witness Krishna Mahato is the Govt Gaon Burha of
the village, where the accused had committed the offence.
Krishna Mahato has stated that one person informed him over
telephone in the morning hours that there was a huge quarrel
at the place of occurrence and one person was assaulted by
the villagers. The caller told him that the person, who was
beaten by the villagers might die, because of the beatings of
the villagers. Krishna Mahato has stated that on hearing that
news, he immediately informed police and thereafter he went
to the place of occurrence. Krishna Mahato has stated that he
pacified the angry villagers, who informed him that the
accused had committed rape upon the victim girl on the
pretext of giving her treatment.

20. At the time of cross examination, Krishna Mahato has
stated that the house where the accused used to stay belongs
to Dashram Majhi. The remaining part of his cross examination
is irrelevant for the present case.

21. The Doctor, who had examined the victim during the
investigation period has proved her report as Ext. 2. This
Doctor was also cross examined by the defence counsel. The
Doctor stated before the defence counsel that the abrasion,
which was found in the labia minora of the victim girl might
also be caused by self inflicted injury. The Doctor also stated
before the defence counsel that the injury in the labia minora
might also be caused due to forceful use of tampon.

22. The witness Debojita Changmai has stated that the
accused had come to Digboi and had taken a room on rent
near a field. She has stated in her evidence that the victim
had to visit the accused for three consecutive days. Debojita
Changmai has stated that the mother of the victim told her
that the victim was subjected to rape. She has stated that the
victim also confirmed the said fact.

23. The cross examination portion of Debojita Changmai
consists of irrelevant facts.

24. The witness Bino Gogoi is a hearsay witness. She had
heard from someone that one quack had committed rape upon
the victim girl. She has stated that some people of the locality
had gone to the police station and she also accompanied
them.

25. The cross examination portion of the evidence of Bino
Gogoi is absolutely irrelevant for the case.

26. Now, | shall take up th evidence of Niru Gogoi. She
resided in a house near the place of occurrence. Niru Gogoi
has stated that on the day of occurrence in the morning while
she was brushing her teeth infront of her house, she had seen
one person named Baba Changmai, who told her that his
niece, who had eye sight problem was brought to the accused
for treatment and the accused had committed rape upon her
by taking her inside the house.

27. Niru Gogoi stated before the defence counsel that the

victim is not a relative, bit she knew her.

28. The witness Sanatan Murmu has stated that the
accused had organized a camp for three days for giving
treatment to the people. The house of this witness is situated
at a distance of about half a kilometer away from the place of
occurrence. Sanatan Murmu has stated that his mother told
him that people were beating the accused. According to him,
after hearing about that fact he went to the place of
occurrence to know as to what had happened. He has stated
that when he arrived at the place of occurrence, police also
arrived there at the same time. According to Sanatan Murmu,
he heard from the people, who gathered there that the
accused had committed rape upon the victim girl.
10

29. The cross examination portion of the evidence of
Sanatan Murmu does not contain any relevant facts,

warranting an elaborate discussion.

30. The last prosecution witness to be examined is the
Police Investigating Officer and he spoke about the
investigation of the case.

31. Now, | shall take up the defence evidence. The accused
has stated in his evidence that as a priest, he spreads
message of Bible and also gives treatment to ailing persons by
giving them water. The accused has produced one certificate,
showing that the Believes Church gave him the certificate to
do the aforesaid works. The accused claimed in his evidence
that he has been unnecessarily framed in this case by the
victim girl in association with her mother and _ Prabin

Changmai.

32. During cross examination by the prosecution counsel,
the accused has stated that he actually does not provide any
medical treatment to ailing persons. He only prays for
recovery of the ailing persons. Before the Ld. Public
Prosecutor, the accused has admitted that the victim was
brought to him on two days. The accused has stated that on
the first day, the victim was brought to him in the afternoon
and on the next day, she was brought to him at about 6 /7 am.
The accused has stated in his evidence that he did not
remember if police had recorded his statement, nor did he
remember if he had stated before police that he gave
treatment to the victim girl for giving back her vision.

33. On scrupulous perusal of the prosecution evidence as
well as the defence evidence, | find that it is an admitted fact
11

that on the day of occurrence, the victim had come to the
house of the accused for curing her blindness. There is no
denial of the aforesaid fact. Now, a question arises as to why
the victim girl and her mother would depose false evidence
against the accused. He never pleaded any enmity with the
aforesaid witnesses. The victim girl was medically examined
on the day of occurrence at about 11.55 am. Doctor found
abrasion on the labia minora of the victim girl. The Doctor has
also stated in his evidence that the aforesaid injuries are
suggestive of forceful sexual intercourse. | do not find any
reason as to why the victim girl would self inflict abrasion on
her labia minora. The Doctor has stated that the injury upon
the labia minora can also be caused due to forceful use of

tampon.

34. A tampon is a feminine hygiene product designed to
absorb the menstrual flow by inserting into the vagina during
menstruation. Once inserted correctly, a tampon is held in a
place by the vagina and expands as its soaks up the
menstrual blood. The majority of tampons sold in the market
are made of rayon or a blend of rayon and cotton.

35. In this case, there is no evidence that the victim was
using a tampon. It was the duty of the accused to prove that
fact, but he did not adduce any evidence to that effect.

36. There are no contradictions or discrepancies in the
evidence of the victim and her mother. Their evidences have
been corroborated by the medical evidence. The so called
discrepancies painstakingly highlighted by the Id defence
counsel do not go to the root of the prosecution case. On the
other hand, the evidence of the accused failed to inspire
12

confidence. He failed to probabilise the notion that he was
unnecessarily framed in this case by the victim girl.

aT. Under the circumstances, | have sufficient reasons to
hold that the victim girl and her mother are reliable witnesses.
Their evidences inspired confidence. Now, | have no hesitation
to hold that the offence of penetrative sexual assault upon the
victim girl is proved beyond all reasonable doubt against the
accused.

38. At this stage a question arises as to whether the victim
was below 18 years of age at the time of occurrence. She
claimed that she was born on 23/01/2001. The medical
evidence has found the victim girl to be between 15 to 17
years. The accused never challenged the aforesaid facts
during cross examination. Therefore, | hereby hold that the
offence u/s 4 of the POCSO Act is proved against the accused
beyond all reasonable doubts.

ORDER

39. In the result, the accused Abu Salam Nand is found
guilty of committing penetrative sexual assault upon the
minor girl and accordingly, he is convicted u/s 4 of the POCSO
Act.

SENTENCE

40. The convict has cheated the faith of the victim girl and
her family. The convict failed to keep the faith reposed upon
him by people. The convict used, his so called divine
knowledge, to commit rape upon the blind minor girl. The
convict Abu Salam Nand is a danger to the society. He must be
13

punished adequately. Therefore, | have heard the convict in
the matter of sentence.

41. Apart from pleading not guilty, the convict has stated
that he has his wife and daughter, who are presently residing
in the District of Golaghat.

42. The Ld. Special Public Prosecutor has submitted that he
would not object to whatever the convict has pleaded.
According to the Ld. Special Public Prosecutor, no separate
sentence hearing is necessary in the instant case. Mr. B.L.
Agarwal has further stated that the sentence upon the convict
may be awarded today itself.

43. It appears that the convict is a pedophile. People like
the convict targets helpless minor children to satiate their lust.
They use children for illegal sexual purpose. Our children are
our future. Therefore, in order to protect them from the
preying eyes of people like the convict, the Special Legislation
POCSO Act of 2012 has been enacted by our Parliament. This
is a special legislation only to protect children from being
sexual abused. Sexual abuse at a tender age causes mental
trauma to the children and it haunts them in their entire life.
Therefore, considering the aforesaid facts, | hereby sentence
the convict Abu Salam Nand to undergo’ Rigorous
Imprisonment of 7 (Seven) Years. The convict is further
sentence to pay a fine of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand
Only) and in default of payment of the fine, the convict shall
undergo another period of imprisonment of 6 (six) months.

COMPENSATION

44. Law has mandated that the victim of a crime must be
adequately compensated by the State. Here in this case, the
14

victim is a minor blind girl. She did not have the capacity to
resist the convict when he had committed rape upon her.
Therefore, in order to rehabilitate the victim girl, the District
Legal Service Authority, Tinsukia is directed to pay a
compensation of Rs. 50,000/- (Rupees Fifty Thousand Only) to
the victim girl.

45. | hope, the sentence imposed and the compensation
awarded would be sufficient to reach the ends of justice.

46. A free copy of the judgment be given to the convict
immediately. Another copy of the judgment shall be forwarded
to the Ld. Deputy Commissioner, Tinsukia, under the the
provision of section 365 of the Cr.PC. A copy of the judgment
Shall also be forwarded to the District Legal Service Authority,
Tinsukia.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this
lst day of October, 2019.

(P.J. Saikia)

Special Judge
Tinsukia

Dictated & corrected by me.

Special Judge

Tinsukia
15

A P P_ EN DIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES

1

Zs

8.

0,

. PW1 -

PW2 -

PW3 -

PwW4 -

. PW5 -

PW6 -

PW7 -

PW8 -

PW9 -

10.PW10 -

Smti Labita Chutia

Smti Pahi @ Parakhmoni Chutia
Sri Prabin Changmai

Sri Krishna Mahato

Dr. (Mrs.) Rani Gogoi

Smti Debojita Changmai

Smti Binu Gogoi

Smti Niru Gogoi

Sri Sanatan Murmu

Sri Gauranga Dey, S.I. of Police

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS

Ext.1-

Ext. 2-

Ext. 3-

Ext. 4 -

Ext. 5 -

Ext. 6 -

M. Ext.1-

M. Ext.2-

Ejahar

Medical report
Laboratory report
Radiological report
Sketch map

Charge sheet

Birth certificate of victim

Statement u/s 164 Cr.PC.
16

DEFENCE WITNESS

1. DW1 - Abu Salam Nand
DEFENCE EXHIBITS

1. Ext. A- Certificate

2. Ext. B- _—- Certificate

3. Ext. C- Certificate

Special Judge

Tinsukia
