SESSIONS CASE NO. 41/2018

 

am >» Date of
| Proceeding

Order or other proceeding

 

 

 

   

03.10.2019

Accused person namely — Prantosh
Deb is represented by his Ld. Counsel,
Shri. A. A. Laskar.

The Judgment is delivered and
pronounced in the open Court today and a
separate copy of Judgment is tagged with the
case record.

I hold that the prosecution has
failed to establish the prosecution case beyond
reasonable doubt and the accused is entitled to
benefit of doubt. Accused person namely —
Prantosh Deb is acquitted and set at liberty
forthwith.

A copy of the Judgment be sent to
the District Magistrate U/S 365.

Bail bond of the accused shall remain
in force for the next 6 (six) months u/s 437(A)
Cr. PG.

 

The Sessions Case No. 41/2018 is

disposed of on contest.

Office action
Signature taken on
of Court order with
date and
dated

signature of
pleaders of
- parties when
necessa

 

 

 

 

 

 
1 Sessions case No. 41/2018

 

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE ::::: DIMA HASAO, HAFLONG.

SESSIONS CASE NO. 41/2018

(Under Section 366A/ 376 IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO Act)

The State of Assam

 

-Vs =
Prantosh Deb
Ecceeaae Met! Accused,
PRESENT:- Shri. Abhijit Bhattacharyya
Sessions Judge, Dima Hasao.
COUNSELS:- Sri A. Chakravarty, Ld. PP for the State.

Shri. A A laskar, Ld. Advocate for the accused.

Date of Argument: 23.07.2019

Date of Judgment: 03.10.2019

 
2 Sessions case No. 41/2018

JUDGMENT

   
    

The prosecution case, in brief, is that one Smt. Kalpana
Roy, lodged an FIR before the OC, Haflong Police Station on 05.05.2018 at
about 9:30 am to the effect that since 03.05.2018 from about 6:00 pm, her
daughter (prosecutrix) aged about 14 years went missing from their home at
Apollo Road, Haflong. The informant also stated in the aforesaid FIR that she
Suspected their own son-in-law, Shri. Prantosh Deb, to have kidnapped her
daughter(Prosecutrix) as he was also not available at Haflong at the relevant
point of time.

After receipt of the above FIR a case was registered vide
Haflong PS case No. 38/2018 U/S 363 of IPC R/W section 4 of the POCSO Act.
During the course of investigation the victim was recovered from the house of
the accused by the Police. On completion of investigation, the I.O filed
chargesheet against accused Prantosh Deb U/S 363 of IPC R/W section 4 of
the POCSO Act.
My predecessor in office framed charges u/s 366A/376

@
=
Wn
©
O
ce
oO
S
4
Oo
o
=
O
O)
WY
O
>
5
ctr
oy
a
a.
5
a
cr
(at:
=
@
o
a
Oo
D
©
o.
—
a
O
a
a)
a
=3
o
cs
iO
O
wv
=
a
ao

accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. The Prosecution examined
" as many as 10 (ten) witnesses including the M.O and the I.O. Further,
Shri. JMAK Tapadar, SDJM, Dima Hasao who recorded the statement of the
victim u/s 164 of Cr. PC was examined as CW — 1. The accused was generally
examined on the circumstances coming up in the evidence of the PWs. The
accused pleaded total denial and stated that he had been falsely implicated in

the case.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

1. Whether the accused person namely, Prantosh Deb induced the
Prosecutrix who was below 18 years of age from the lawful
guardianship of her parents with the intent that she may be forced or
seduced to illicit intercourse with another person and_ thereby
committed the offence u/s 366A of IPC?

 
3 Sessions case No. 41/2018

2. Whether the accused Prantosh Deb committed rape upon the
Prosecutrix and thereby committed the offence u/s 376 IPC?

3. Whether the accused Prantosh Deb committed penetrative. sexual
assault upon the prosecutrix and thereby committed the offence under
section 4 of the POCSO Act?

 

DISCUSSION ON THE POINT FOR DETERMINATION AND THE
DECISION ARRIVED THEREON WITH REASONS:

PW — 1 is Kalpana Roy who is the informant and mother
of the prosecutrix. PW — 1 stated that the accused Prantosh Deb is her son-in-
law and that the Prosecutrix is her younger daughter. PW- 1 stated that one
day as her younger daughter (Prosecutrix) arrived home a little late from
school, she had reprimanded her for her late coming. Thereafter PW — 1 had
gone to her shop and after closure of the day's business when she returned
home she found her younger daughter (Prosecutrix) missing. Though they
had searched for the Prosecutrix they could not trace her. She lodged the
* FIR/Missing Report at the PS which was exhibited as Ext — 1. After two days

? the Prosecutrix arrived with the accused. On being asked the Prosecutrix told

her that she had gone on an outing with her brother-in-law.

 

During her cross examination PW — 1 stated that after
her return back to their home the Prosecutrix did not relate to any sexual
conduct of the accused. PW — 1 also stated that the Prosecutrix was aged
about 19 — 20 years at the relevant point of time. PW — 1 stated that her
personal relationship with her son-in-law was smooth. She also stated that
she had not come across any incident with regard to her son-in-law making
any overtures towards the Prosecutrix and neither did the Prosecutrix
complained to PW — 1 regarding the accused asking for sexual favours at any
point of time. PW — 1 also stated that the accused used to take the
Prosecutrix to her school sometimes.

PW — 2 is the victim (Prosecutrix). PW — 2 stated in her
deposition that the accused is her brother-in-law. PW — 2 stated that she was

  
   
 

a student of class — VIII at the relevant point of time. One day as she had

come home late from school she was reprimanded by her mother for which
4 Sessions case No. 41/2018

  
 

she felt highly offended and had gone out with her brother-in-law without
informing her mother. She stated that she did not know the place to which
she had been taken by her brother-in-law (accused). She stated that later she
came to know that it was the house of the sister of the accused and that the
sister of the accused lives with her husband and two children at Silchar.
PW — 2 stated that in the night she had slept with the sister of the accused at
whose house they had stayed. She also stated that they stayed there for one
night but she did not have any physical relation with her brother-in-law during
her stay there. PW — 2 also stated that the following morning they came back
to Haflong and stayed at the house of her brother-in-law (accused) from
where her mother had brought her home. The Police had come and arrested
the accused in view of the case registered against him. She also stated that
she was medically examined and thereafter she was taken before a
Magistrate who recorded her statement u/s 164 of Cr. PC. PW — 2 stated that
she had given her statement before the Magistrate which was proved and
exhibited as Ext — 2.
.\ In her cross examination PW — 2 stated that the accused
; did not have any physical relation with her during their stay at the house of

the sister of the accused. She also stated that the accused never asked for

 

sexual favours earlier. She stated that she had given her statement before the
Police and the Magistrate as she was in a state of panic. The Prosecutrix
(PW — 2) also stated that whatever she had stated before the court in her
evidence was without being influenced by anyone. She also stated that her
sister has an issue (child). She also stated that the accused lives with her
sister. She stated that the case has been filed by her mother as she was
upset after finding her missing from the house.
PW — 3, Shri. Bipod Ranjan @Bapon Ghosh, PW — 4

Shri. Alok Roy and PW — 5 Shri. Ranjan Nath are mere hearsay witnesses and
the above three witnesses did not state anything legally incriminating against
the accused Prantosh Deb. The counsel for the accused declined to cross
examine all the aforesaid three witnesses.

| PW — 6 is Shri.Taj Uddin who only stated that he heard

that the accused had taken the Prosecutrix with him.

 
5 Sessions case No. 41/2018

  
 

During his one line cross examination PW — 6 stated that
the informant Kalpana Roy told him that the Prosecutrix had eloped with the
accused.

PW — 7 is Shri. Abhinash Roy who is the father of the
Prosecutrix. PW — 7 stated that the accused Prantosh Deb is his son-in-law,
he having married the elder daughter of PW — 7. PW - 7 stated that the
accused is like his son. PW — 7 stated that one day on his return from work
he found his younger daughter missing. He also stated that having failed to
trace the prosecutrix his wife had lodged a missing entry at Haflong PS. Later
PW — 7 came to know that the accused had gone with his younger daughter.

During his short cross examination PW — 7 stated that he
was not aware where the accused and the Prosecutrix had gone.

PW — 8 is Dr. Nenei Hrangkhol, working as M&HO at
Haflong Civil Hospital. PW — 8 stated that on 06.05.2018 she had examined
the Prosecutrix aged about 15 years in connection with Haflong PS Case
No. 38/2018 u/s 363 of IPC. After examination PW — 8 had recorded her
findings as follows:

. Number of teeth — 28 nos.
No injury seen on the parts of the body.
X — Ray finding: All epiphyseal fusion 50% completed.

 

1
2.
a,
4, The age of the victim was 14 to 15 years.
5. No violation marks seen.
6. There was a sign of sexual intercourse.

PW — 8 proved her medical report as Ext - 3. |

In her cross examination PW — 8 stated that the age
determination done through ossification test was approximate. PW — 8 denied
the suggestion that the age of the victim is not in conformity with her actual
age. She stated that the findings are purely clinical and diagnostic and that
the hymen may get ruptured while cycling and other physical activities.
PW — 9 is Sub inspector of Police, Shri. Atikhur Rahman

who was posted on 15.05.2018 at Haflong PS as attached officer. On that day

   
  

he received a case diary from the OC, Haflong PS for investigation and having
found that the investigation had already been completed by A.S.I Tikendrajit
6 Sessions case No. 41/2018

   
 

Singha he submitted chargesheet against accused Prantosh Deb which he
exhibited as Ext — 3.

PW — 10 is A.S.I of Police, Shri. Tikendrajit Singha posted
at Haflong PS. PW — 10 stated that on 05.05.2018 the OC Haflong PS after
registering Haflong PS Case No. 38/2018 endorsed the same to him for
investigation. During investigation PW — 10 examined the complainant and
other available witnesses and also visited the PO. PW — 10 searched the
house of accused Prantosh Deb and recovered the victim girl (Prosecutrix)
from his house. He proved and exhibited the search list as Ext — 4. After
arresting the accused he forwarded the accused to court. PW — 10 also got
the victim girl medically examined at Haflong Civil Hospital and also got her
statement recorded before a Magistrate u/s 164 of Cr. PC. He also seized one
Birth Certificate of the victim girl which he exhibited as Ext — 5. PW — 10 also
collected the medical certificate from Haflong Civil Hospital. Thereafter he
submitted the case diary to the OC, Haflong PS and thereafter the charge
sheet was submitted by S.I of Police Shri. Atikur Rahman.

Apart from the aforesaid prosecution witnesses,
gf Shri. JMAK Tapadar, SDJM, Dima Hasao who was posted as_ Judicial
Magistrate First Class cum Munsiff at Haflong on 06.05.2018 was examined as
CW — 1. He proved the statement of the Prosecutrix recorded u/ 164 of Cr. PC
as Ext 2,

 

In the instant case out of 10 (ten) prosecution witnesses,
PW — 8 is the medical officer whereas PW — 9 and PW — 10 are investigating
officers. Out of the remaining seven witnesses PW — 3, PW —- 4, PW — 5,
PW — 6 & PW -— 7 did not state anything incriminating against the accused
Prantosh Deb. Therefore the evidence of PW — 1 (informant cum mother of
the Prosecutrix) and PW — 2 (the Prosecutrix) are very important.

I have carefully gone through the evidence of both
PW — 1 and PW — 2. However a close and careful scrutiny of the evidence of
PW — 1 would reveal that apart from stating that her daughter was missing
and that she had filed the FIR Ext — 1 after failing to trace her, PW — 1 has
not stated anything incriminating against her son-in-law who is the accused.

‘In fact, during her cross examination, PW — 1 stated that the Prosecutrix did

 
T YESSIONS CdSC INO. FL1/ZULO

 
  
   

not relate to any sexual conduct of the accused and that she had not come
across any incident with regard to the accused ever making any overtures or
any demand for sexual favours from the Prosecutrix.

Now coming to the evidence of the Prosecutrix, she also
did not state anything incriminating against the present accused Prantosh Deb
in respect of the charges levelled against him. Though the Prosecutrix
admitted that she had given her statement before the Magistrate (Ext — 2) in
a state of panic, she did not reiterate or reaffirm the said statements in the
Court. She also stated that she had deposed before the court without being
influenced by anyone. She also stated that her mother filed the FIR as she
was upset.

The above is the threadbare discussion of the prosecution
evidence on record.

I have gone through the entire case record including the
* evidence. I have also heard Ld. PP, Dima Hasao as well as Ld. Counsel for the
accused.

In a criminal trial the prosecution has to prove its case

 

beyond reasonable doubt. However, from the above discussion I have come
to the conclusion and finding that the prosecution has failed to bring home
the charges against the accused Prantosh Deb beyond reasonable doubt.

In view of the aforesaid facts and circumstances of the
case, the accused Prantosh Deb is acquitted and set at liberty forthwith.

A copy of the Judgment be sent to the _ District
Magistrate U/S 365 of Cr. PC.

Bail bond of accused shall remain in force for the next 6
(six) months u/s 437(A) Cr. PC.
Given under my hand on this cH day of October, 2019.

  

Sessions Judge,

Dima Hasao.

Sessions Judge,
Dima Hasao, Haflong
8 Sessions case No. 41/2018

APPENDIX:-

   

PROSECUTION WITNESSES :-

1. PW-1 Smt. Kalpana Roy

2. PW — 2 Prosecutrix

3. PW —3 Shri. Bipod Ranjan @Bapon Ghose
4. PW —4 Shri. Alok Roy

5. PW-—5 Shri. Ranjan Nath

6. PW —6 Shri. Taj Uddin

7. PW -—7 Shri. Abhinash Roy

8. PW -8 Dr. Nenei Hrangkhol, M.O

9. PW -9 Shri. Atikur Rahman, I.O

10.PW — 10 Shri. Tikendrajit Singha.

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS :

. Ext-—1 FIR

Ext — 2 Statement of the Prosecutrix u/s 164 Cr. PC.

Ext — 3 Medical Report

Ext — 4 Search List

Ext — 5 Birth Certificate of Prosecutrix

. Ext — 6 Chargesheet (wrongly recorded as Ext — 3 in the
deposition of PW - 9).

DRWNr

 

COURT WITNESS:

1. CW -—1 Shri. JMAK Tapadar, SDJM, Dima Hasao, Haflong.

  

Sessions Judge,
Dima Hasao.
Sessions Jud .

Dima Masao, Haflo
