IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE AT BARPETA.

Present :- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com., LL.B.,AJS,
Special Judge,
Barpeta.

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 47 OF 2017
(G.R. Case 3395 of 2017)
Baghbar P.S. Case No 173 of 2017

State of Assam

-versus-
1. Jeherul @ Sanidul Islam,
S/O Taripuddin,

Resident of Mourigaon,
P.S. Baghbar,

Dist.: Barpeta, ae Accused.
APPEARANCES :
For the State : Sri Lalit Ch. Nath, learned Public Prosecutor,
Barpeta &
Sri M. Ahmed, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor,
For the Accused :  Goutam Behari Das, learned Advocate, Barpeta.

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 294/354 OF THE INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 11 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM
SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012.

Date of Charge : 09.01.2018,

Date of Prosecution evidence : 22.02.2018, 10.04.2018, 25.05.2018,
26.07.2019,

Date of recording Statement : 14.08.2019,

Date of Argument : 21.09.2019

Date of Judgment : 01.10.2019.

Special POCSO 47 of 2017 Pagel of 14
JI_ U D G M E N T

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Baghbar P.S. Case No 173 of
2017 under section 341/294/323/363/374/506 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 Read
with section 11 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was
registered on the basis of a F.I.R. lodged by Babida Parbin, who is informant as well
as the victim of this case.

In the aforesaid F.I.R. Dated 13.07.2017 [Ext.1] the informant Babida
Parbin alleged interalia that on the same day at about 7 AM, when she was coming
home from doing tuition at Dighirpam High School, then at the school campus, the
accused person proposed her. But she rejected his proposal for which the accused
person tried to take her away forcefully but the friends of the victim saved her from
the clutch of the accused persons. It is further alleged that the accused person
caused injury to the victim on her cheek by slapping her and also took away the gold
chain from her neck wherein “Allah Hu” was written. It is further alleged that the
accused often restrained the victim when she used to go to school by bicycle and
matter was also informed to guardian of accused.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the In-charge, Mandia Police Out
Post, the same was entered vide G.D. Entry No.111, dated 13.07.2017 and it was
registered as Baghbar P.S. Case No 173 of 2017 under section
341/294/323/363/374/506 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 Read with section 11 of
the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was medically
examined by the doctor, her statement under station 164 of CrPC was recorded by
the learned Magistrate. Police, on completion of investigation, filed charge sheet in
the case against the above named accused Jeherul @ Sanidul Islam under section
341/294/323/363/506/511 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 Read with section 11 of
the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 vide charge sheet No.85,
dated 31.07.2017.

Special POCSO 47 of 2017 Page 2 of 14
2 Accused person was produced after filing of charge-sheet against him.
On appearance of accused, copy was furnished to him by my learned Predecessor-

in-office.

ca Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the learned counsel for the
accused person and the prosecution in this behalf, charge was framed against the
accused person u/s 294/354 IPC R/W section 11 of the Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 my learned Predecessor-in-office. The same which was
read over and explained to the accused person, to which, the accused pleaded not

guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. During the course of trial, O7(seven) number of witnesses including
the victim, informant, the Medical Officer and the I/O were examined on behalf of
the prosecution to prove the charge u/s 294/354 IPC R/W section 11 of the
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 against the accused.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of the above
named accused person was recorded u/s 313 of CrPC. The accused person denied all
the alleged incriminating materials against him. He claimed himself to be innocent.
He also stated that father of the victim is President of S.M.C. Madrassa and father of
accused, is also member of said Madrass and his father caught him while selling

stolen articles of Madrassa. Accused denied to adduce evidence in his defence.

5. I have heard argument advanced by Mr. Lalit Ch. Nath, learned Public
Prosecutor of Barpeta for the State as well as the learned Defence Counsel for the
accused person, who is facing trial for commission of offence u/s 294/354 IPC R/W
section 11 of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6. Now the point for determination before this court are as follows ---

(1) Whether the accused person, on 13.07.2017 at about 6:00 AM at

Dighirpam within the jurisdiction of Baghbar Police Station, District

Special POCSO 47 of 2017 Page 3 of 14
Barpeta, to the annoyance of Babida Parbin did the obscene act i.e. gave
illicit gesture of love affairs and thereby committed an offence punishable
u/s 294 of the Indian Penal Code ?

(2) Whether the accused, on the aforesaid date, time & place, assaulted
or used criminal force to Babida Parbin intending to outrage or knowing it
to be likely that the accused would thereby outraged her modesty and
thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 354 of the Indian Penal
Code ?

(3) Whether the accused, on the aforesaid date, time & place,
committed sexual harassment on Babida Parbin and thereby committed an
offence punishable u/s 11 of the Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 ?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF

re To decide the above point and sections of law, let us examine, analyze

and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses alongwith the relevant documents.

The victim [PW1], who is also the informant of this case, deposed in
her evidence before the court that on 13.07.2017 at around 7 AM, the she alongwith
her friends Sahnaj, Khalida, Rahima, Arjuma went to Dighirpam High School for
taking tuition. Sukur master did tuition. At about 8 AM, when they were coming back
after tuition, the accused appeared before the victim and made proposal of love
before her. Victim refused and then the accused, dragged the victim holding her
hand and slapped her. Her friends prevented and her gold locket was unstrung
where the words “Allah Ho” was written and the accused took away the same. PW1
further stated that that prior to this incident, the accused person pulled her cycle
while she was coming from school and she did not disclose this to anybody. PW1
lodged the ejahar and exhibited the ejahar vide Ext.1 wherein Ext.1(1) is her
Signature. Police sent her for medical examination and got her statement recorded
by learned Magistrate. She exhibited her statement vide Ext.2 wherein Ext.2(1) &

Special POCSO 47 of 2017 Page 4 of 14
2(2) are her signatures. She also stated that she narrated the same facts before the
police and learned magistrate.

During cross-examination, PW1 has stated that the ejahar was not
written by herself and she does not know the name of the person who wrote the
ejahar. Police examined her in thana and on that very day she was produced before
the learned Magistrate and the statement which she gave before the learned
Magistrate was not tutored by police. Her friends reside near her house and Sahnaj
is her cousin sister.

She denied that she did not state before police that at about 8 AM,
when they were coming back after tuition, then, near the gate of the
school, the accused appeared before the victim and made proposal of love
before her.

She also denied that she did not state before police that accused
took away the gold locket from her neck where the words “Allah Ho” was
written.

She stated that her father is the Presidentof Dighirpam M.E.
Madrassa and father of accused is member of that Madrassa. She also stated that
she does not know if father of accused lodged case against her father alleging theft
of rice of mid-day meal of Dighirpam M.E. Madrassa. Her father did not take her to
medical prior to lodging of this case.

She denied that her father lodged the instant case out of grudge as

father of accused lodged case against her father.

Witness Sahnaz Parbin [PW2] deposed that she knows the victim
and they study in the same class. On 13.07.2017 at around 7 AM, they went to do
tuition at Dighirpam School and on returning from tuition, in front of the school the
accused person appeared before them and made proposal of love before Babida. As
Babida rejected the said proposal of love, the accused person assaulted the victim.
The accused person also snatched the gold locket of the victim where the words
“Allah Ho” was written. PW2 further stated that the accused used to pull cycle of
victim while going to school and sometimes accused kept standing on the road

taking a lathi. PW2 also stated that Arjuma, Khalida, Rahima were also alongwith

Special POCSO 47 of 2017 Page 5 of 14
them and they all accompanied father of Babida to thana. It is further stated that by
PW2 that when she resisted the accused at the gate of school, he pushed her and
police took her also to hospital.

During cross examination, PW2 has stated that she is appearing
for her HSLC Examination. She does not know the name of the teacher to whom
they went for tuition, but lateron she said that his name Sukur Sir. She stated that
Sir did not see the incident. Babida is her cousin sister. Father of Babida took them
to thana.

She denied that she did not state before police that in front of school
gate accused assaulted Babida and snatched away the locket; that sometimes
accused kept standing on the road taking a lathi.

She also stated that at the relevant time, Akkes and many other
persons were present at the place of occurrence besides the girls.

She further denied that she has deposed falsely today for the sake her

cousin sister; she has falsely stated that accused pushed her.

Witness Akkesh Ali [PW3] deposed in her evidence before the court
that he knows the victim and her father. On 13.07.2017, when he was at market.
After 8 AM of the relevant date, he heard that accused assaulted the victim and a
gold chain or a locket was lost.

During her cross examination, PW3 stated that he heard about
the incident in the market, but he does not remember as to from whom he heard
about the incident. He also stated that he did not stated before police that accused

assaulted Babida.

Witness Kabir Hussain [PW4] deposed in his evidence before the
court that victim is his daughter and he knows the accused. Incident occurred before
8/9 months. His daughter used to go to Dighirpam school for tuition to Sukur
Mamud at 6 AM and returned at 7 AM. On the relevant day, one person telephoned
him that the victim was assaulted. Then he came to the spot which was the school
field. There was 15/20 other boys and girls alongwith Babida, who was weeping. On

being asked, friends of victim told him that the Jeherul made love proposal to victim

Special POCSO 47 of 2017 Page 6 of 14
and as she rejected it, Jeherul assaulted her and also snatched the gold locket of
the victim where the words “Allah Ho” was written. He also stated that he did not
see Jeherul there. PW4 also stated that friends of victim resisted the accused when
he assaulted her. In the evening they went to thana where the victim filed the
ejahar. Public caught the accused and handed over to police. Police took the
accused. PW4 also stated that police examined him.

During cross-examination, PW4 stated that he was not present at
the time of incident. He heard about the incident from Babida and her friends.

He denied that he did not state before police that Babida was
weeping in the field and on asking her as to what happened, her friends told that
Jeherul made proposal “love you”, as she did not agree Jeherul assaulted her.

He also denied that he did not state before police that accused
snatched away the gold locket of Babida from her neck where the words “Allah Ho”
was written. He denied that he has deposed today by exaggerating the facts.

He admitted that he is the President of Managing Committee of
Dighirpam school. He denied the fact of lodging case against him by father of
accused alleging theft of rice is not true.

He denied that he has deposed falsely today.

Witness Sukur Mahmud [PW5] deposed in his evidence before the
court that he is a teacher of Goalpara Chanduwa M.E. School and during vacation he
used to stay at his home at Dighirpam. In the 2017, during summer vacation he did
tuition in Dighirpam School from 6 AM to 7/7:30AM. On the relevant day also he did
tuition. Babida Parbin alongwith her friends also did tuition under him. But on the
next day victim and her did not come to tuition. On enquiry he came to know that
one boy named Jeherul slapped Babida. Lateron, he came to know from Babida that
accused made indecent proposal before her and slapped her and then he lodged
case in thana. Police examined him.

During cross-examination PW5 stated that he heard about the

incident on the next day. He forgot the date of incident.

Witness Dr. Abdul Baten [PW6], who is one of the M.O. of the

Special POCSO 47 of 2017 Page 7 of 14
case, stated in his evidence before the court that on 13-07-2017 he was working as
M.O. at Mandia BPHC, Barpeta. On that day, in connection with Mandia OP GDE
No.222 dated 13-07-2017, he examined Shahanas Parbin, aged 15 years, D/O
Asrab Ali, Vill- Dighir Pam, PS- Baghbar, Dist-Barpeta, Assam at 10:10 AM and on
examination he found one tenderness on the left shoulder joint. The injury was
caused by blunt object. PW6 exhibited the medical report vide Ext.3 and Ext.3(1) is
his signature.

On the same date, in connection with the same case No. at 10:05 AM,
he also examined Babida Parbin, aged 15 years, D/O Kabir Hussain, Vill- Dighir
Pam, PS-Baghbar, Dist- Barpeta, Assam. On examination he found tenderness on her
left cheek. The injury was caused by blunt object.

PW6 exhibited the medical report vide Ext.4 and Ext.4(1) is his signature.

During her cross-examination, PW6 stated that in Ext.3 & 4, the
names of the patients, address and case No. are not written by him. The rest
part is written by him. Tenderness is not visible. It can be ascertained on the basis of
the complaint of the patient. The alleged history is not written in the Ext.3&4. None

of the patients is identified to him by any other person. They were self escorted.

Witness Mwblik Brahma [PW7], who is the I.O. of this case, stated
in his evidence that on 13-07-2017 he was working at Mandia OP as its in-charge.
On that day at about 9.30 AM two girls came to police OP alongwith her father. They
lodge one FIR. He entered the same vide. GDE No. 222 dated 13/07/2017. He
forwarded the FIR to OC Baghbar PS for registration of the case.

He then recorded the statement of informant and the other girl who
accompanied her at that time.

He then proceeded at the place of incident. He drew the sketch Map.
Ext 5 is the sketch map. Ext. 5 (1) is his signature. He recorded the statement of
other relevant witnesses.

In the meantime, he got information that accused Jeherul Islam was
caught by public and had been detained at Dighir Pam Market. He went there and
brought the accused to police OP.

OC Baghbar PS registered the FIR as Baghbar PS case No. 173/2017.

Special POCSO 47 of 2017 Page 8 of 14
The officer in-charge of Baghbar PS directed him to investigate the case. Ext. 1 is
the FIR and 1 (2) is the signature of the then officer in-charge Sri Tarun Ch. Boro.

He examined the accused and forwarded him to Ld. Court. Both the
victims who came to thana were sent for their medical examination. And he also got
their statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

On 31-07-2017 he submitted charge-sheet against the accused person vide
CS No. 85/2017 dated 31/07/2017 after collecting medical report. Ext. 6 is the
charge-sheet and Ext. 6(1) is his signature.

During cross-examination, PW7 stated that the name of the
person who wrote the FIR (Ext. 1) is not mentioned in the FIR itself. He does not
who caught the accused person at Dighir Pam Market and he did not take any
statement, in this regard.

He did not seize any locket written therein as Allah Hu Akbar. School
of the victim was closed at that time. There were no dwelling house at the place of
incident.

He does not remember whether father of the accused lodged theft
case of rice against father of victim.

Victim (PW-1) did not state before him that accused took her golden
locket where “Alah Hu” was written.

He did not investigate regarding the relation of Shehnaz Parbin with
Babida Parbin.

Witness Shehnaz Parbin did not state before him that accused

snatched locket from Babida at the time of incident.

9. Marshalling the entire evidence on record, it is seen that victim[PW1]
and her cousin sister [PW2] deposed about the tale telling incident of assault
allegedly caused upon the informant-cum-victim by the accused on the date of
incident.

It is to be worth mention hear that incident occurred near the exit
gate of Dighirpam High School at about 8:00 AM. Victim[ PW1] deposed that on the
relevant date at about 7:00 AM she alongwith Sahnaz [PW2], Khalida, Fatima and

Arzuma went to take tuition from Sukur Ali teacher[PW5] and when they were

Special POCSO 47 of 2017 Page 9 of 14
coming out from school after tuition was over, then accused proposed love to her.
she did not agree, then accused pulled her by her hands and slapped her. victim also
deposed that her friend restrained the accused and at that time the golden locket,
on her neck, where “Allah hu” was written fell and accused took the same with him.

Eye witness of the incident, Sahnaz Parbin[PW2], who is cousin sister
of victim, deposed that accused assaulted the victim, on the relevant date, when she
rejected love proposal of accused. She also deposed that accused also pushed her
when she restrained accused at the time of incident. PW2 also deposed that at the
time of incident Akkesh and many other persons were present apart from girl
students.

However, Akkesh Ali, deposing as PW3, denied that he was present at
the time of incident and deposed in his examination-in-chief that he was at market
at the time of incident. He simply stated that he heard about the incident but could
not say who told him about the incident. He admitted that he did not not state
before police that accused assaulted the victim. The evidence of PW3 is not
important or going to help the prosecution case.

PW4 is the father of victim, who did not see the alleged incident
himself.

Similarly, witness Sukur Mahmud[PW5] deposed that he heard about
the incident on the next day of incident. He deposed that victim was given indecent

proposal by the accused.

10. Now, coming to the evidence of Medical Officer [PW6] namely Dr.
Abdul Baten, who examined the PW1 and PW2 on the date of incident. It is seen
that he found tenderness on the left shoulder and left cheek of victim [PW1] and her
cousin sister[PW2]. However, in his cross-examination he deposed that tenderness
was not visible and same was ascertained only on the complaint of patients. The
Medical Officer also admitted that on the medical reports [Ext.3 & Ext.4] the names
of patients, case No. and their addresses were not written by him. He also deposed
that patients were escorted by self and nobody identified them to him.

Generally, if the name of patients, their addresses, case No. is not

written by the Medical Officer himself, it does not matter much. But the matter is

Special POCSO 47 of 2017 Page 10 of 14
important as the I.0.[PW7] Mwblik Mrahma deposed that he sent the victim girls for
their medical examination, who came_ to him at 9:30 AM. Ext.3 and Ext.4 [medical
examination report] show that the M.O.[PW6] examined the victim girls at 10:05 AM
and 10:10 AM respectively. But as per First Information Report seen by learned J.M.
1st Class, Barpeta, it is seen the that matter was reported to police on 13.07.2017 at
12:45 PM. That means, victims were examined by M.O.[PW6] at 10:05 AM and
10:10 AM of the same day before matter was reported to police on the date of
incident.

It cast serious doubt on the authenticity of evidence of prosecution
case that accused assaulted the victim and PW2 and police sent them for their
medical examination on the same date after 12:45 PM, as M.O. stated that he
examined PW1 and PW2 at 10:05 AM and 10:10 AM respectively.

11. Moreover, not a single independent witness has supported the case of
prosecution. Prosecution side has failed to examine even a single girl friend of
victim, who were reportedly with her, at the time of incident, for the reason best
known to it.

PW3, who was allegedly present at place of incident, as per version of
eye witness [PW2], did not corroborate the evidence of PW2 and deposed that he
was at market only at the relevant time.

The only witness [PW2], who deposed that accused assaulted the
victim, on the alleged ate of incident, is her cousin sister, so her evidence cannot be
relied fully in absence of evidence of any uninterested witness, who were admittedly

present at the time of alleged incident.

12. In the case of Utpal Mishra —versus- State of Assam, 2015 [2]
GLR 542, it has been held by the Hon'ble Gauhati High Court in Para No-22 of its

judgment as follows :
PARA NO-22

The principle of criminal jurisprudence are that :

a) There should be legal, reliable and unimpeachable evidence

Special POCSO 47 of 2017 Page 11 of 14
prove that the prosecution story “must be true” rather than “may

be true”;

b) It is a settled principle of criminal jurisprudence that
more serious the offence, stricter is the degree of proof;

c) Standard of proof ina criminal case : burden is always on

the prosecution and the same never shifts. Prosecution can

never drive any benefit from the weakness of the defence
version;

d) Holding a witness “implicitly reliable” leads to denial of

judicial consideration of the infirmities in evidence;

e) Defence witness cannot be disbelieved by relying on
conjectures and surmises: they are entitled to equal
treatment with those of the prosecution;

f) If two views are possible in a criminal case, the view
favourable to the accused should be accepted;

g) The averment/allegation with respect to the commission of
rape has got to be clear and specific for basing a finding of
guilt rather that being just inferential. The evidence
/averments /allegations must fulfill the ingredients of
offence of RAPE as denied under Section 375 of
IPC;

h) The prosecution must prove the case in the manner in
which they are alleged to have been caused. It is
elementary where the prosecution has a definite and
positive case, it must prove the whole of that case;

I) In a case the prosecution leads two sets of evidence,
each one of which contradicts and strikes at the other and

shows it to be unreliable, the result would necessarily be that the

court would be left with no__—i reliable and trustworthy evidence
upon which the conviction of the accused might be _ based.

Inevitably, the accused would have the benefit of such

situation.

Special POCSO 47 of 2017 Page 12 of 14
13. Keeping in mind the above rationale as laid down by the Hon'ble Apex
Court, I am constrained to hold that the evidence adduced by the prosecution in

support of its case is nothing shorter than mere conjectures and suspicion.

14. In view of the above evidence on record, discussion held based on
established principles of law and also upon hearing the learned counsel for the
parties, I hold that the prosecution miserably failed to prove the charge under
Section 294/354 IPC as well as under Section 11 of The Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012, against accused Jeherul @ Sanidul Islam beyond all
reasonable doubt and the accused is liable to be acquitted.

Consequently, the charge under Section 294/354 IPC as well as under
Section 11 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, is held to
be not proved against the accused Jeherul @ Sanidul Islam beyond all reasonable
doubt. Accordingly, the accused is found entitled to get benefit of doubt for which

the accused namely Jeherul @ Sanidul Islam is acquitted under benefit of doubt.

15. In the result, accused Jeherul @ Sanidul Islam is acquitted of the
charge under Section 294/354 IPC as well as under Section 11 of The Protection of
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, levelled against him, on benefit of doubt
and he is set at liberty forthwith. Bail bonds stands discharged.

16. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 1st day of
October, 2019.

Sd/-
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Typed by me

(Kavery Das, Stenographer)

Special POCSO 47 of 2017 Page 13 of 14
APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 = Babida Parbin, the victim,

P.W.2 = Sahnaz Parbin,

P.W.3 = Akkesh Ali,

P.W.4 = Kabir Hussain,

P.W.5 = Sukur Mahmud,

P.W.6 = Dr. Abdul Baten, the M.O.,

P.W.7 = Mwblik Brahma, the I.0.,
(B) Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1 = Ejahar,

Ext.1(1) = Signature of PW1/victim,

Ext.1(2) = Signature of O/C Tarun Ch. Boro,

Ext.2 = Statement u/s 164 of CrPC,

Ext.2(1) & 2(2) = Signature of PW1/victim,

Ext.3 &4 = Medical reports

Ext.3(1) & 4(1) = Signature of PW6/M.0.,

Ext.5 = Sketch map,

Ext.5(1) = Signature of PW7/I.0.,

Ext.6 = Charge Sheet,

Ext.6(1) = Signature of PW7/I.0.

(C) Defence witnesses: Nil.
(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.

(E) Court witnesses:Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil.

Sd/-
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Special POCSO 47 of 2017 Page 14 of 14
