IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :::::::: BILASIPARA

Present:- Shri J. Borah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Bilasipara
Special (POCSO) Case No- 13 of 2019
u/s 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act
State of Assam
-Vs-
Baharul Islam

eseees accused person

Date of framing charge ‘= 04-06-2019
Date of recording evidence _ :- 18-06-2019
10-07-2019
06-08-2019
Date of Argument ‘ 28-08-2019
Date of Judgment I 28-08-2019

Advocates Appeared:

For the State of Assam :- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Ld. Addl. P.P

for the State of Assam

For the defence :- Mr. A.M. Sarkar,

Ld. Advocate for the accused.
JUDGMENT

1. This case is u/s 12 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Act, in short POCSO Act. So, the name of the victim is not mentioned here
and she is referred to, hereinafter, as ‘x’.

2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Jakir Hussain, the informant

Contd. to page no.-2
[2]

lodged an ejahar with Bilasipara police station on 13-04-2019 informing that
‘x’ is the daughter of the informant. She is 17 years old. She goes to school
by a road which runs infront of the house of the accused Baharul Islam. The
accused Baharul Islam shows some bad signal to her. The said accused also
uttered some obscene words to her. The said accused also created some
rumours against ‘x’. ‘x’ found an irritating situation to mix with the villagers.
So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against the
accused.
3. The Bilasipara police station recived the ejahar and registered as
Bilasipara police station case no. 312/19 u/s 12 of POCSO Act. The case was
investigated and having found prima facie u/s 12 of POCSO Act against the
accused Baharul Hussain, prepared the charge sheet and laid the same
before the court for trial.
4. The accused Baharul Islam, hereinafter called the accused, appeared
in this case and he was furnished copy. Charge was framed u/s 12 of POCSO
Act. The charge was read over and explained to the accused to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
5. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against the

accused, examined 9 (nine) witnesses, namely-

1. Jakir Hussain PW-1
2. Johura Bibi PW-2
3. Khalilur Rahman PW-3
4. Abdul Hashem Miah PW-4
5. ‘x’/ the victim P.W-5
6. Mayful Bewa P.W-6
7. Gulzar Seikh P.W-7
8. Nur Jamal Hoque P.W-8
9. Chitta Ranjan Purkayestha P.W-9
6. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C and his statement was

recorded where he denied all allegations levelled against him in the evidence

adduced by the prosecution witnesses and also declined to adduce evidence

in defence.
7. Heard argument for both sides.
8. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

i. Whether accused since many days back from the date of lodging

Contd. to page no.-3
[3]

ejahar on 10-04-2019 on several occasions at village Pasuar Khal
Pt. III under Bilasipara police station committed sexual
harassment to ‘x’, a minor girl aged about 17 years old, by

showing indecent sign to ‘x’?

DECISION AND REASONS THERE OF
9. In this prosecution case P.W-1 Jakir Hussain is the informant, P.W-2
Johura Bibi is the wife of the informant, P.W-3 Khalilur Rahman, P.W-4 Abdul
Hashem Miah, P.W-6 Mayful Bewa, P.W-7 Gulzar Seikh, P.W-8 Nurjamal
Hoque are independent witnesses. P.W-5 ‘x’ is the alleged victim and P.W-9
Chitta Ranjan Purkayestha is the investigating officer.
10. Now let's see the evidence available on record.

P.W-1 Jakir Hussain has stated in his evidence that he is the
informant in this case. ‘x’ is his daughter. The occurrence took place two
months ago (from the date of adducing his evidence on 18-06-2019). At the
time of occurrence ‘x’ was 17 '% years old. ‘x’ is a student of Barkanda
Higher Secondary school. When ‘x’ goes to school, the accused used to utter
obscene word to her. The parents of the accused were informed about it,
but they did not take any steps. So, he lodged the ejahar, Ext-1 against the
accused. The police seized one school certificate from him, Ext-2 is the
seizure list and Ext-2(1) is his signature.

In his cross P.W-1 has stated that he cannot say the days on which

the accused uttered obscene words to ‘x’. He did not hear the obscene
words uttered by the accused. The accused is the son of his elder brother.
He denied that the accused did not utter any obscene words towards ‘x’.
11. P.W-2 Jahura Bibi has stated in her evidence that the informant is her
husband and ‘x’ is her daughter. ‘x’ is 17 2 years old. ‘x’ is a student of
Barkanda Higher Secondary School. The accused uttered some obscene
words to ‘x’ when she went to school. The parents of the accused were
informed about it, but they did nothing. Accordingly, her husband lodged
ejahar against the accused.

In her cross examination P.W-2 has stated that they did not complain
to the school authority. The accused is the son of her husband's elder
brother.

Contd. to page no.-4
[4]

12. P.W-3 Khalilur Rahman has stated in his evidence that a village
meeting was called for the occurrence in connection with ‘x’, but the meeting
did not hold. He does not know the rest.

Cross examination of P.W-3 was declined by the defence.

13. P.W-4 Abdul Hashem Miah has stated in his evidence that there
occurred something between ‘x’ and the accused. A meeting was called for
but it did not hold.

The cross examination of P.W-4 was declined by the defence.

14. P.W-5 ‘x’ has stated in her evidence that the informant is her father.
She is a student of Barkanda Higher Secondary School. When she went to
school, the accused uttered obscene words to her. The accused told her to
have physical relation with him. The accused also threatened to kidnap her.
She informed her parents all about the occurrence. A village meeting was
called for. But it did not hold. Her father lodged this case against the
accused. She gave her statement before the Magistrate. Ext-3 is the said
statement. Ext-3(1)(2) are her signatures. The police seized her school
certificate, Ext-2 is the seizure list and Ext-2(2) is her signature.

In her cross P.W-5 has stated that the accused is her brother in
relation. The accused used to visit their house. The accused is married man.
She did not say anything to the family members of the accused person. She
denied that the accused did not utter any obscene words to her.

15. P.W-6 Mayful Bewa has stated in her evidence when ‘x’ told that the
accused uttered obscene words to her, she was present there. She does not
know the other thing.

In her cross P.W-6 has stated that she knows nothing about the
occurrence.

16. P.W-7 Gulzar Seikh has stated in his evidence that he heard when ‘x’
told that the accused uttered obscene words to her. A meeting was called
for, but it did not hold.

In his cross P.W-7 has stated that he did not hear to utter obscene
words to ‘x’ by the accused.

17. P.W-8 Nur Jamal Hoque has stated in his evidence that he got to
know from the villagers that the accused uttered obscene words to her.

In his cross P.W-8 has stated that he cannot say from whom he

heard about it.

Contd. to page no.-5
[5]

18. Thus, meticulous scrutiny of evidence of P.W-1 to P.W-8 shows that
P.W-1 Jakir Hussain is the informant and P.W-2 Jahura Bibi is the mother of
‘x’. P.W-1 and P.W-2 got to know about the occurrence from their daughter
‘x’ that the accused uttered obscene words to ‘x’. The other witnesses
namely P.W-3, P.W-4, P.W-6 and P.W-7 and P.W-8 got to know either from
‘x’ or from the villagers. There is not a single witness to hear when the
accused uttered obscene words to ‘x’. So, the whole prosecution case
depends on the evidence of P.W-5 ‘x’.

According to P.W-5 when she went to school. The accused uttered
obscene words and gave her ill signals and asked her to have physical
relation with him and also threaten to kidnap her. According to P.W-5, the
accused did it repeatedly. But she did not inform the family members of the
accused. The accused is the son of her (P.W-5) father’s elder brother. So, by
that way, the accused is her brother. The accused is a married man. P.W-5
‘x’ could have informed the family members of the accused. But according to
P.W-5, she did not inform the family members of the accused. P.W-5 has not
stated anything in her evidence why she did not inform the family members
of the accused.

Another aspect is that there were other 3/4 girls students from the
said village to go Barkanda Higher Secondary School. They would have
known about the occurrence. But the prosecution did not examine any one
of them. So, it is a lapse on the part of the prosecution.

Another aspect is that P.W-5 is an educated girl. She could have
stated on which days the accused uttered obscene words to her or gave bad
Signal to her. But P.W-5 has failed to mention the date of occurrence.

Another important aspect is that the sketch map Ext-4 shows that
there are many houses, namely house of Jakir, Harmuz Ali and Abdul Rashid,
nearby the place of occurrence. If the accused did something, P.W-5 could
have taken any measure to protect herself from such untoward occurrence.
But P.W-5 did not take any steps.

Another aspect is that the accused is brother of P.W-5 ‘x’ in relation.
There were good relations between them. In such a situation, the accused
being the brother of ‘x’, would threaten ‘x’ to commit rape her cannot be
acceptable.

Considering above all aspects, it appears that the evidence of P.W-5

Contd. to page no.-6
[6]

is not free from doubt. Rather the evidence of P.W-5 is shrouded with many
discrepancies.
19. P.W-1 Jakir Hussain is the informant. He lodged the ejahar Ext-1. The
ejahar Ext-1 does not reflect any date of occurrence. P.W-1 has not
mentioned any particular day on which day or days the occurrence took
place. So, the information as found in the ejahar is not itself clear.
20. The same is the evidence of P.W-2 Jahura Bibi. P.W-2 has also not
mentioned the day when the occurrence took place.
21. The other witnesses namely P.W-3, P.W-4, P.W-6, P.W-7 and P.W-8
are not trustworthy. They heard about the occurrence either from P.W-5 ‘x’
or from the villagers.
22. P.W-9 Chitta Ranjan Purkayestha is the investigating officer. He
investigated the case and prepare charge sheet Ext-5. The evidence of P.W-
9 is mere official. It cannot develop the prosecution case.
23. Taking all into consideration, it leads to conclusion that the
prosecution has failed to prove the offences as alleged against the accused.
The evidence as projected by the prosecution is not sufficient and reliable to
establish it’s case. The prosecution case is found dearth of merit.
24. The prosecution, thereby, has failed to prove it’s case u/s 12 of
POCSO Act against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.
25. Held, the accused is not guilty u/s 12 of POCSO Act.
26. Accordingly, the accused is acquitted and set at liberty.

The bail bond of accused stands cancelled and bailor is discharged
from liabilities.

The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal by this court on this 28" day of
August, 2019 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Shri J. Borah)
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Transcribed & typed by,
S. Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.

Contd. to page no.-7
[7]
APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

PW-1 Jakir Hussain

PW-2 Johura Bibi

PW-3 Khalilur Rahman

PW-4 Abdul Hashem Miah

P.W-5 ‘x’/ the victim

P.W-6 Mayful Bewa

P.W-7 Gulzar Seikh

P.W-8 Nur Jamal Hoque

P.W-9 Chitta Ranjan Purkayastha

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS :-
Ext-1 Ejahar,
Ext-2 Seizure list,
Ext-3 Statement of ‘x’ recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,
Ext-4 Sketch map,
Ext-5 Charge sheet

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT WITNESS - NIL
COURT EXHIBITS sf NIL

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
