pv
\\
ov

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.
Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,

 

Special Judge,

Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 42(DH)/ 2018.

U/S 376,366/34 of IPC R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act.
The State of Assam
- Versus —

1. Shri Durlov Biswas,
S/O Debendra Biswas,

Vill. No.1 Bhairabpur Gaon,
P.S. Silapathar,

Dist.- Dnhemaji.

2. Shri Debendra Biswas,
S/O Lt. Bharat Biswas,

Vill. No.1 Bhairabpur Gaon,
P.S. Silapathar,

Dist.- Dnemajieeccceceeececeseeeeee Accused Persons.
Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla,

Public Prosecutor cca For the State
ShriB. Borah, Advocate  ——_.......... For the Accused
Date of prosecution evidence : 05-08-2019.
Date of argument : 23-10-2019.

Date of Judgment : 06-11-2019.
JUDGMENT

i The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 16-02-2018
complainant- Smt. Maya Debnath lodged an ejahar with Silapathari Police
Station alleging interalia that in the month of ‘Kati’, 2017 while her minor
daughter Smti ‘X’ aged about 17 years, had gone to Manikpur to watch
‘Rash Festival, but she did not come back home. They searched for her,
but could not find her. After about 15 days of the occurrence, Smti Phulu
Biswas took her daughter to their home. She (complainant) came to know
from her daughter that accused-Durlov Biswas with the help of Debebdra
Biswas and one Smt. Phulu BIswas kidnapped her daughter and kept her in
the house of accused- Durlov Biswas for 4 months as his wife. It is further
alleged in the ejahar that the family members of the accused-Durlov Biswas
used to torture her (victim) in their house.

2. On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused persons u/s 376, 366/34 of IPC R/W Sec. 4 of the
POCSO Act.

3: On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charges u/s 376 of IPC R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act
against accused-Durlov Biswas and charges u/s 366/34 of IPC was framed
against accused-Durlov Biswas and Debendra Biswas, and read-over and
explained to them to which the accused persons pleaded not guilty. The
prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined two witnesses. At the
closure of the prosecution evidence statement of the accused persons were
recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. However, the
defence adduced no evidence in support of their case.
yo?
pl"

Judge,
nal

4. Points for determination :

(1) That you ( Durlov Biswas) in the month of ‘Kati’, 2017 and
thereafter at Maniukpur and No.1 Bhairabpur Gaon under Silapathar
Police Satiation committed rape on Smt. ‘X’, a minor girl aged about
17 years, having sexual intercourse against her will and consent and
thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 376 of IPC.

(2) That you, on the same date, same time and thereafter
you ( Durlov) committed penetrative sexual assault on Smti ‘Xx’, a
minor girl aged about 17 years and thereby you committed an
offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

(3) That, in the month of ‘Kat; 2017 at Maniukpur under
Silapathar Police Station you ( Debendra Biswas and Durlov Biswas)
in furtherance of common object abducted/kidnapped Smt. ‘Xx’, a
minor girl aged about 17 years, from the road while she was going to
enjoy ‘Rash-Festival’ at Manikpur, with intent that she might be
compelled to marry you ( Durlov Biswas) against her will, or that she
might be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby you
committed an offence punishable u/s 366/34 of IPC.

a I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

6. PW1 Smt. ‘X’ (victim girl) stated the complainant is her
mother. Accused-Durlov is her husband and accused-Debendra Biswas is
her father-in-law. The incident took place about one year back. She had
love affairs with the accused. One day she eloped with the accused without
the knowledge of her parents. Her father got upset and lodged complaint
before police. After filing of the case, she got married with the accused and
now she is living with the accused (Durlov) as husband and wife. At the
time of occurrence, she was aged about 19 years. Now, she does not want

to proceed against the accused and her parents are also not willing to
proceed against the accused.

In cross-examination PW1 stated that now accused-Durlov
Biswas is her husband and they are living together. She prays the Court to

acquit the accused persons.

as PW2 Smt. Maya Devi Debnath stated that she is the
complainant. She knows the accused persons. The incident took place about
one year. Her daughter had love affairs with the accused (Durlov Biswas).
Her daughter had eloped with the accused without their knowledge. So, she
lodged complaint before police against the accused persons. However, her
daughter got married with the accused-Durlov and now she is peacefully
living with him (Durlov) and hence, they decided not to break their
relationship. So, she is not willing to proceed against the accused persons.
Exhibit-1 is the ejahar and Exhibit-1(1) is her signature.

In cross-examination PW2 stated that now accused-Durlov
Biswas is her daughter’s husband. She prays before the Court to acquit the
accused persons.

Appreciation of evidence :

8. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that
in this case the victim and the complainant-Smt. Maya Devi Debnath were
examined as P.W-1 and PW2 respectively. In their evidence this two vital
witnesses stated that the victim ‘Xx’ had love affairs with the accused-Durlov
BIswas. One day she eloped with the accused without the knowledge of her
parents. Parents of the victim ‘X’ got upset and lodged complaint before
police. After filing of the case, she (victim) got married with the accused
and now she is living with the accused (Durlov) as husband and wife. At

the time of occurrence, the victim was aged about 19 years. Now, they
( PWs-1 & 2) do not want to proceed against the accused and her parents
are also not willing to proceed against the accused.

In cross-examination both PW1 and PW2 stated that now
accused-Durlov Biswas is the husband of the victim (PW1) and they are
living together peacefully in the house of the accused (Durlov Biswas). Both
the P.Ws. pray before the Court to acquit the accused persons.

9. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is
no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the
alleged offences. This is a case of absence of evidence. It is also seen from
the evidence of the PWs- 1 and 2 that both the parties have compromised
the case outside the Court and hence they have not deposed against the
accused persons. I find that the prosecution has totally failed to prove the
charges u/s 376/366/34 of IPC read with Sec.- 4 of the POCSO Act against
the accused persons.

10. In view of the above, I find the accused-Durlov Biswas not
guilty u/s 376 of IPC read with Section-4 of POCSO Act and I also find
accused persons-Durlov Biswas and Debendra Biswas not guilty u/s
366/34 of the I.P.C. Accordingly, both the accused-Durlov Biswas and
Debendra Biswas are acquitted of the charges leveled against them. Set
them at liberty forthwith.

11. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
12. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 6%
day of November 2019. 0
() Ww
( S. Das )

ad
