1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE::::::BARPETA, ASSAM.

Special P.O.C.S.O. Act CASE NO. 40 OF 2017
Under Section 376 I|.P.C R/W Section 12 of P.O.C.S.O. Act,2012
Present:- Smti. C. R. Goswami, A.J.S.,

Special Judge, Barpeta

State of Assam.

-versus-
1. Md. Abdul Haque,
2. Md. Sarap Ali,
3. Must. Saniara Khatun
beeees Accused.
APPEARANCE
For the Prosecution : Mr. Lolit Ch. Nath, learned P.P.
For the accused : N.M.H. Rahman, learned Advocate.
Evidence recorded on : 18.01.2018,07.03.2018,24.04.2018,
16.05.2018,
Argument heard on : 21.06.2018,
Judgment delivered on : 02.07.2018.

} U D G M E N T

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 14.10.2016 one
Momtaz Khatun lodged an FIR alleging interalia that on the same day at
about 2:00 PM while the victim, aged about 14 years, was returning home
from her school, accused Abdul Haque attempted to commit rape on her
2

near his house. As a result, she sustained injury on different parts of her
body. Hearing her shouting, while she rushed to the place of occurrence,
accused Abdul Haque, Sarap Ali, Abalit and wife of Sarap Ali physically
assault her and snatched away an amount of Rs.3000/- from her. They
also torn her wearing cloths and caused injury on her person.

2. On the basis of the F.I.R. police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation submitted charge
sheet against accused Md. Abdul Haque, Md. Sarap Ali & Must. Saniara
Khatun under section 341/323/354/34 IPC R/W section 8 of POCSO Act,
2012.

3. The accused persons appeared before this court, copies were
furnished to them and after hearing both the parties charge was framed
against accused Md. Abdul Haque, Md. Sarap Ali & Must. Saniara Khatun
person under section 376 |.P.C read with section 12 of POCSO Act. Charge
was read over and clearly explained to the accused persons to which they
pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.

4. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined as many
as 8(eight) witnesses in all. The accused persons are examined u/s 313
CrPC wherein they have taken the plea of total denial and declined to
adduce any evidence.

5. Point for determination:-

Whether the accused persons on 14.10.2016 at 2:00 PM at
Jania, within the jurisdiction of Barpeta PS. in District Barpeta, voluntarily
caused hurt to Runia Khatun, aged about 14 years, daughter of the

informant and committed sexual harassment on her ?

Discussion, decision and reasons thereof
6. The allegation as narrated in the FIR is that on 14.10.2016 at
about 2:00 PM accused Abdul Haque attempted to commit rape on the

 

victim and the other accused persons physically assaulted the informant
and snatched away Rs.3000/- from her.
Z; To succeed in the case, the prosecution has examined as
many as 8(eight) witnessed including the M.O. & 1.0.
8. The M.O. Dr. Samad Ali is examined as PW1. He has deposed
that on 14.10.2016 he examined victim Runia Khatun and one Momtaz
Khatun i.e. the mother of the victim. On examination of Runia Khatun he
found as follows---
Injury:- Pain complained of head ache, back pain, leg pain and general
weakness.

The patient was completely stable during examination.
Impression:- Simple injury. No any weapon found.
On examination of Momtaz Khatun he found as follows---
Injury:- Swelling on upper lip, neck pain and body ache. Patient was found
completely stable during my examination.
Impression:- Simple injury. No any weapon found.

In cross examination, he has stated that he examined both
the injured at his private chamber. He did not know the injured persons
prior to examination. The injured were not identified to him by anybody.
He issued prescriptions to both the injured, but he does not find any
prescription alongwith his report in the case record. He maintained one
register regarding the examination of patient, but he has not produced the
same before the court. The complaints which are made by Runia may
occur for any reason. He did not mention in his report how Momtaz
sustained injury. Neck pain may be caused due to spondylitis. Swelling of
upper lip may be caused due to allergy. He did not mention the weapon
which was used for injury.

9. The informant Mamtaz Khatun as PW2 has deposed that
about 1% years ago one day at about 2:00 PM while the victim was
returning home, she saw their goat in the paddy field of the accused
persons. While she drove out the goat, accused Abdul Haque physically
assaulted her. Thereafter, accused Sarap Ali, Saniara and Abu Alit
4

assaulted her. Hearing hue and cry, she rushed to the place of occurrence
and then she was also assaulted by holding her hair and torn her wearing
clothes. They also torn the wearing cloths of Runia and took away her
books. Runia sustained injury on her back and head. Then she lodged the
FIR. They took treatment by their own.

In cross examination, she has stated that she could not

remember the date of occurrence. The FIR was written by police at
Barpeta PS. She only put her signature. She does not know what was
written there. The occurrence took place near the house of one Saheb Ali.
At a distance there was the house of Golap. She does not know whether
they knew about the occurrence or not. Their goat was in the paddy field
of the accused. Police did not produce the victim before the medical
officer.
10. Victim Runiya Khatun as PW3 has deposed that about 1%
years ago one day at about 2:00 PM while she was returning home from
school, her father asked her to take their goat to home. While she was
taking the goat, accused Sarap Ali asked her as to why she had taken the
goat. Accused Abdul Haque, Sarap Ali, Abali and Saniara physically
assaulted her and torn her clothes. As a result, she sustained injury on her
person. She took treatment from medical officer. Abdul Haque and Sarap
Ali tried to do illicit act with her. While she made hue and cry, her parents
arrived at the place of occurrence. While they rescued her, they also
assaulted by the accused persons. Her mother lodged the FIR at police
station.

In cross examination she has stated that the occurrence took
place at Jania Road near the house of one Saheb Ali. There were other
houses also. While she made hue and cry, nobody came out to the place
of occurrence. She took the goat from the house of Sarap Ali. They kept
their goat in their house as their paddy field was damaged by the goat.
Sarap Ali is the cousin brother of Abdul Haque, Abalit is the son of Sarap
Ali. On the day of occurrence at about 3:30 PM her mother lodged the FIR.
5

Thereafter, police took her to the medical officer for examination. After
1¥%2/2 months of the occurrence police produced her before the magistrate
and magistrate recorded her statement. The people nearer to the place of
occurrence knew about the occurrence. She sustained injury on her left
leg. She has denied that she did not state before the magistrate that
Sarap Ali and Abdul Haque tried to make illicit act with her. Her father
Sukur Ali did not come to the place of occurrence. He arrived after the
occurrence. She could not remember whether she had stated before the
police that accused Abdul Haque and Sarap Ali tried to commit illicit act
with her.

11. The father of the victim Sukur Ali as PW4 has deposed that on
the day of occurrence, at about 2:00 PM he was at his own paddy field. He
could not find out his goat. He took the goat from the house of the
accused persons and gave his daughter to take home. Thereafter he left
the place. After some time, he heard that Abdul Haque, Sarap Ali, Abali
and wife of Sarap Ali physically assaulted his wife and daughter. He
resisted them, but the accused persons showed knife to him and then out
of fear, he left the place. An amount of Rs.3000/-, which was with him,
was taken by the accused persons. His daughter and wife sustained injury.
The wearing clothes of the wife and daughter were torn by the accused
persons. They were examined by the medical officer.

In cross examination he has stated that he was called by one
boy named Sajidul. If Sajidul did not call, he would not be able to know
about the occurrence. The accused kept his goat in their house as the
goat damaged their paddy. The mother of Sarap Ali gave him the goat and
then he took the same. Saheb Ali knew about the occurrence. His wife and
daughter did not know regarding missing of an amount of Rs.3000/- and
showing of dagger by the accused persons. His daughter sustained injury
on abdomen and right hand. He handed over the torn clothes to police. He
has denied that he did not state before the police that while a boy
informed him, he came to the place of occurrence, the accused showed
6

dagger to him and an amount of Rs.3000/- was missing from his kpocket.
He had admitted that he did not state before the police that Abalit
assaulted him. He has admitted that prior to his appearance, the
occurrence took place. Relating to the same occurrence, the accused
persons also lodged an FIR against him

12. One Jainuddin as PW5 has deposed that at the time of
occurrence he was not at home, but lateron he heard that a quarrel took
place in between the husband of the informant and the accused persons.
13. One Julhas Ali as PW6 has deposed that he heard that a
quarrel took place relating to the damage of paddy of the accused persons
by the goat of the informant.

14. One Anowar Hussain as PW7 has deposed that relating to the
damage of paddy of the accused persons by the goat of the informant a
quarrel took place.

15. Sri Pradip Kr. Barman, the I/O of this case, as PW8 has
deposed that on 14.10.2016 the informant lodged the FIR and on
15.10.2016 he visited the place of occurrence. He sent the victim for
medical examination and also produced her before the magistrate for
recording her statement.

In cross examination he has stated that in the FIR names of 4
persons were mentioned as accused, but he could not collect any
evidence against accused Abali. He has stated that he did not produce the
victim for medical examination. The victim took treatment by herself. He
has stated that the victim did not state either in her statement u/s 161
CrPC or u/s 164 CrPC that accused Sarap Ali and Abdul Haque attempted
to cause illicit act with her. He has confirmed that PW Sukur Ali did not
state before him that he was informed by his son and then he came to the
place of occurrence and the accused persons showed dagger to him and
Snatched away an amount of Rs.3000/- from his pocket.

16. From the above discussions of the evidences of the
prosecution witnesses, it is found that though three independent
7

witnesses are examined as PW 5,6 & 7, but they did not support the
prosecution case. They simply stated that relating to the damage of paddy
of the accused persons by the goat of the informant, a quarrel took place
in between them. The informant has also not made a single whisper
regarding the attempt of sexual assault by the accused persons on the
victim. She has simply stated that the accused persons physically
assaulted the victim and her and the victim sustained injury on her back
and head. According to the victim, she sustained injury on her left leg. In
her examination-in-chief, she has stated that accused Abdul Haque and
Sarap Ali tried to commit sexual assault on her, but she has not made
such statement either under section 161 CrPC or under section 164 CrPC
and according to the FIR accused Abdul Haque tried to commit rape on
the victim. According to her, her father was not present at the time of
occurrence. He arrived at the place of occurrence while the occurrence
was over. But her father claimed himself as present at the time of
occurrence and according to him, he resisted the accused persons, but the
accused persons showed dagger to him and also snatched away an
amount of Rs.3,000/- from his pocket. According to him, the victim
sustained injury on her abdomen and right hand. He also does not state
that the accused persons tried to commit sexual assault on the victim.
The I/O has confirmed that this witness did not state before him that the
accused persons showed dagger to him and snatched away an amount of
Rs.3,000/- from his pocket. The snatching away of Rs.3,000/- from the
pocket of Sukur Ali i.e. PW4 is contradicted with the statement of the FIR.
According to the FIR, an amount of Rs.3,000/- was taken form the
informant Momtaz Khatun. Regarding injury, all the three witnesses have
contradicted each other. According to PW4, the victim sustained injury on
abdomen and right hand, according to the informant, the victim sustained
injury on back and head and according to the victim she sustained injury
on her left leg. But the medical officer did not find any injury on the
person of the victim. The victim only complained of pain of headache,
8

general weakness, back pain and leg pain. No weapon was used for those
complaints. Therefore, it is found that all the three witnesses i.e. PW2, 3 &
4, who are the victim and her mother and father, are the most interested
witnesses, but yet they have contradicted each other. PW2 and 4 i.e. the
mother and father of the victim have not made single whisper regarding
the sexual assault on the victim. Though the victim has stated in her
examination-in-chief as PW3, but she has not stated regarding sexual
assault in her statement either under section 161 CrPC or under section
164 CrPC. Hence, her evidence is not trustworthy and reliable. So, her
statement which is made in the court is not corroborated by any of the
witnesses, even her parents. So her evidence can not be relied upon and
on the basis of such unreliable and untrustworthy evidence, no one can be
convicted for any offence.
17. Under the above facts and circumstances, it is clear that the
prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of the accused persons for
any offence either under section 376 I.P.C or under section 12 of POCSO
Act, 2012. Therefore the accused persons are acquitted on benefit of
doubt and set at liberty.
18. Bail bond executed by the accused persons and the surety
are extended for another period of 6 (six) months from the date of this
judgment under section 437-A Cr.P.C.
19. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section 365
Cr.P.C.
14. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 2nd day
of July, 2018.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-

(Smti. C. R. Goswami) (Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta.
APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 = Medical Officer, Dr. Samad Ali,
P.W.2 = Mamtaz Khatun,the informant,
P.W.3 = Miss Runia Khatun, the victim,
P.W.4 = Md. Sukur Ali,

P.W.5 = Jainuddin,

P.W.6 = Julhas Ali,

P.W.7 = Anowar Hussain,

P.W.8 = Pradip Kr. Barman, the I/O.

(B) Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1 = Medical Report,

Ext.1(1) = Signature of Dr. Samad Ali,

Ext.2 = Ejahar,

Ext.2(1),2(2), = Signature of Miss Mamtaz Khatun,
Ext.3 = Statement of victim u/s 164 CrPC,
Ext.3(1) & 3(2) = Signature of Runia Khatun,

Ext.4 = Seizure list,

Ext.4(1) = Signature of SI Pradip Kr. Barman,
Ext.5 = Sketch Map,

Ext.5(1) = Signature of SI Pradip Kr. Barman,
Ext.6 = Charge sheet,

Ext.6(1) = Signature of SI Pradip Kr. Barman

(C) Defence witnesses:Nil.
(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.

(E) Court witnesses:Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil. Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
