Page 1 of 17

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused.u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

12 OF 2015
(Under Section 6 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 1894 of
2013)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“Vs-
Sri Subhash Chetri
Son of Late Krishna Bh. Chetri,
Resident of Patidoi Bherela,
Police Station — Missamari,
Dist:- Sonitpur,,Assam
29/06/2015
31/08/2015, 13/10/2015,

11/02/2016, 15/05/2017
06/07/2017

31/05/2017 & 25/07/2017

05/08/2017

17/08/2017.

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Mr. I. Ansari, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Subhash Chetri is put for trial for
allegation of charge under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

 
Page 2 of 17

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on or
about in some days before of 04-08-2013, accused called the
informant’s 7 years old daughter “X” and his son Sri Sonu Kumar Singh
to his house at about 3 PM. Thereafter, the accused told his son to go
to the market and then he fell the informant’s daughter down in the bed
and committed rape on her. The aforesaid incident was told by the
informant’s victim daughter on or about 5 days ago. Hence, this
prosecution case. The ejahar was filed by one Smt. Rabita Devi, before
the O/C of Missamari Police Station on 04-08-2013.

3. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the Officer-In-Charge of
Missamari Police Station registered a case being Missamari P.S. Case No
86/13 u/s 376(F) of IPC and endorsed S.I.P. Baishya to investigate the
case. After completion of usual investigation, the O/C Missamari Police
Station sent up the accused for trial.by filing charge sheet u/s 376(F) of
IPC against the accused Sri Subhash Chetri.

4. On being produced thesaccused before this Court, after hearing
both parties, my learned \predecessor-in-court framed charge under
section 6 of theyPOCSO Act, 2012 against the accused and particulars of
the charge.was read over, explained to the accused to which he pleads

not guilty.and claims to be tried.

5; To*substantiate the case prosecution examined ten numbers of
witnesses. After completion of prosecution evidence, accused was
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused
and evidence appears against the accused are put before him for
explanation where he denied the evidence. To buttress the defence, the

accused declined to give defence evidence.

6. I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocate of
both the parties.

7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) “Whether on or about 3 p.m. of 04-08-2013, at Patidoi
Bherela under Missamari Police Station, the accused
Page 3 of 17

committed penetrative sexual assault on the victim Miss
"X” (7 years) and thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 6 of the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence
on record.
9. PW 1, Miss “X” who is the victim of this case was examined

after making due enquiry to know about her intelligence and “rationality
stated that in the year during summer vacation ‘of their school, one day
in the morning, she was playing with her brother, Paban near their
house. At that time the accused came and called‘them to see cartoon in
his house. He then gave his laptop to show*cartoon to her brother in
one room and took her to another room where there was T.V. He made
her lie down on bed and inserted. his penis (Nunu), after opening her
panty, in her private organ. Shestold him that she want to go home and
she will tell her mother, then the accused threatened to kill her. She
went to her house. After one day, she told about the incident to her
mother. Police took her to Court and her statement was recorded. Ext. 1
is her statementeand Ext. 1(1) to 1(4) are her signatures. She was taken
to hospital. Her nick name is Priya. The house of the accused is near her

house.

10. In her cross examination, she admitted that the people accused
house do not come to their house. Her father has quarrelled with the
family members of the accused. On the day of incident, she did not tell
her mother about the incident. On the next day, she told her mother.
When the accused inserted his male organ into her private part she
suffered pain and there was bleeding. She told this fact to her mother.
Doctor examined her injuries. She has told these facts to the police also.

Male police took her statement.

 
Page 4 of 17

11. PW 2, Smt. Rabita Devi, mother of the victim as well as the
informant of this case stated that “X” is her daughter and in the year
2013 when there was summer vacation, one day her daughter was
sleeping, “X” told her that her private part was irritating. On that day,
she did not tell anything. Thereafter, approximately after 10 days
accused called her to see cartoon in his house, then she told that she
would not go. Then she asked “X” as to why the accused was calling
her. Then she told her that about 10 days ago the accused“called her
and her son Paban to see cartoon in his house. She also toldsher that
accused allowed her son to see cartoon in his laptop.in\‘one.room and
the accused took her to next room and made her lie down,.on bed, open
her pant and touched his penis to her private part..Thereafter, “X” did
not use to take food properly. She calledsthe accused to their house and
asked for apology. He also said that»he will leave the village. Thereafter,
after about two days she lodged’an FIR in Missamari Police Station. Ext.
2 is the FIR and Ext 2 (1) is her signature. Thereafter, her daughter was
examined by the doctor and,her statement was recorded by Magistrate

in Court. She was about 7 years of age at the time of incident.

12. In her cross, examination, she admitted that police took her
statement. She denied that she did not state before the police that "one
day her daughter was sleeping, "X” told her that her private part was
itritating. On that day, she did not tell anything. She even has not
stated before the police that after 10 days accused called her to see
cartoon in his house, then she told that she would not go. Then she
asked "X” as to why the accused was calling her. Then she told her that
about 10 days ago the accused called her and her son Paban to see
cartoon in his house. She also told her that accused allowed her son to
see cartoon in his laptop in one room and the accused took her to next
room and made her lie down on bed, open her pant and touched his
penis to her private part. Thereafter, "X” did not use to take food
properly.” She stated that first time also she saw her daughter and her

son going to the house of the accused.

 
Page 5 of 17

13. PW3, Dr. Amarjit Kaur, who is the medical officer of this case
has stated that on 06-08-2013 he was working as Sr. Medical & Health
Officer in the Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur and on that day, he
examined “X”, aged about 7 years, D/O Sri Monoj Prasad Singh of
village Patidoi Bherela, PS Missamari in reference to Missamari PS Case
No. 86/2013 u/s 376 (f) IPC, on being escorted and identified by
Woman Home Guard Bharati Chakraborty of Missamari PS, at about 3
p.m. in the examination room of the labour room complex of the
Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur vide Hospital Registration ~ No.
63290/E/68/2013, in presence of GNM Manika Dutta. Consent of the
victim was taken from the parents prior to medical examination. On
examination he found the following:

Identification mark — linear scar. mark present on the medial
border of left elbow joint.
She has not attained monarchy till date.

History of sexual assault approximately 20 days back.

Height — 127 cm,,Weight = 20 Kg, Teeth — 12/10.

She is a little girl child, neat and tidy. Her gait is normal, built is
average, secondary..sexual characters are not developed. External
genitalia healthy»There is no marks of injury seen on her body as well

as on her private parts.

Investigations advised-

1. Superficial vaginal smear taken and sent for examination for
spermatozoa.
2. X-ray of wrist joint, elbow joint and iliac crest.

Reports.

1. Vaginal smear — no spermatozoa seen. KCH Lab No. 74 dt. 07-08-
2013.

2. X-ray of wrist joint, elbow joint, left hand and iliac crest for age
determination. Done at Assam X-ray Clinical & Laboratory by
Radiologist Dr. P.K. Barman. Patient ID AX 3256 dt. 06-08-2013.

 
Page 6 of 17

i) Union of the epiphysis of the lower ends of left radius and ulna

are incomplete.

ii) Epiphysis of the medial and lateral epicondyle of humorous are

opened.
iii) Epiphysis of the iliac crest has appeared but remains open.
OPINION:
1. Age of the person under investigation is below 18 years.

2. There is no mark of violence or injury marks,present on her

body as well as on her private parts.
3. There is no sign of recent sexual intercourse.

Ext. 3 is the Medical report and Ext» 3(1) is his signature. Ext. 4
is the advice slip and Ext. 4(1) is his signature. Ext. 5 is the laboratory
report. Ext. 6 is the X-ray report°along with plates. Ext. 6(1) is the

signature of Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist, which is known to him.

14, In cross-examination, the Doctor admitted that they maintained
OPD medico.legalregister in their hospital. After examining, they record
the details in the said register. Ext. 3 is copied from the original record
maintained in their hospital. If a minor girl aged about 7 years is
subjected to penetrative sexual assault by an able bodied person, there
must*be tear in her private parts. He did not found any such injury on

the private parts of the victim examined by him.

15. PW 4, Sri Manoj Prasad Singh who is the father of the victim
“X” stated that he knows the accused and the incident occurred about
two years back. At that time his daughter “X” was 7 years old. At the
time of occurrence, he was at Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh. His wife
Rebika Devi informed him about the incident and he came back from
Arunachal Pradesh after 2 days of the incident. He enquired about the
incident from his wife as well as his daughter “X”. His daughter had

informed him that the accused called his daughter and his son Pawan to

 
Page 7 of 17

his house to show cartoon on his Laptop. He asked Pawan to see
cartoon on his Laptop in one room and took “X” to another room and

committed rape on her after removing her pant.

16. In his cross examination, he admitted that when he was at
Arunachal Pradesh he was informed over mobile phone about the
incident. After getting the information he came back to his house. He
denied that he has stated before police that he came from Arunachal to
his house and after staying at home for two days he came toxknow
about the incident. He denied that he has not stated before police that
"my daughter had informed me that the accused committed rape on her
after removing her pant.” He denied that his daughter had not informed

him that accused Subhash raped her.

17. PW 5, Sri Paban Kumar,Singh who is the brother of the
victim was examined after making due enquiry as to his ability to give
rational answer. He stated that.the victim is his twin sister. The incident
took place in the year 2013.during summer vacation in the evening, he
and his sister “X” were coming from their play, at that time the accused
Subhash uncle called.them to see cartoon. He called “X” and then “X”
called him...Both of them went to the house of the accused. Accused
allowed him»tossee cartoon in his laptop in a room and took “X” to a
different.room. At that time it was dark. He could not see anything.
After Some time, “X” came out and told him, on his asking that the
accused uncle made “X” to lie down on the bed and after opening her

pant he inserted his penis.

18. In his cross examination, he admitted that they were playing in a
ground which was a little away from their house. He further admitted

that they informed about the incident to their mother on that day itself.

19. PW 6, Sri Santosh Prasad Singh stated that the “X” is his
niece. The incident occurred about two years back. At the time of
occurrence he was at Itanagar, Arunachal Pradesh. He was informed

about one month after the incident by his mother Shibjyoti Devi. In his

 
Page 8 of 17

cross examination, he admitted that he has no personal knowledge

about the alleged incident.

20. PW 7, Smt. Narmada Pun stated that the incident occurred
about two years back. When police came to the house of the accused

she came to know that some rape case happened.

21. In her cross examination, she admitted that when police came
she was a tenant of the accused. The accused and the parents, of the
victim had no visiting terms at the time of occurrence. She does not

know the reason of quarrel.

22. PW68, Smt. Lila Mushahari stated that.at the time of the incident
she was the tenant of the accused. The ‘incident occurred about two
years back. She was not present at the time of incident. Later on, she

came to know that the accused has raped “X”.

23. PW 9, Sri Pranab Baishya.who is one of the I/O has stated that
on 04.08.2013 he was,posted.Missamari Police Station. On that day,
O/C Tilak Ch. Roy received. an ejahar from one Smt. Rabita Devi and
after registering=the.same vide Missamari PS Case No. 86/13 under
section 376(f) of IPC and endorsed him for investigation of the case. He
recorded the statement of the informant and the victim. Ext 2 is the said
ejahar. and Ext 2 (2) is the signature of the SI, Tilak Ch. Roy. On that
very day at about 2:30 PM, he went to the house of the accused at
Borola Gaon. Thereafter, he visited the place of occurrence and
prepared sketch map. Ext 7 is the sketch map and Ext 7 (1) is his
signature. He then sent the victim for medical examination on
06.08.2013. On 05.08.2013 he sent the victim to record her statement
u/s 164 CrPC. Thereafter, he collected the medical report of the victim.
On 06.08.2013 he arrested the accused person. After completion of
usual investigation, he filed charge sheet against the accused person
under section 376(f) of IPC. Ext 8 is the charge sheet and Ext 8 (1) is

his signature.

 
Page 9 of 17

24. In his cross examination, he admitted that they received FIR on
04.08.2013 and the same was not filed on the date of the alleged
incident. Even the said FIR does not bare the logical explanation of
filling the same in late. The victim “X” did not state before him that
“accused Subhash inserted his penis into her vagina” She again did not
state that as a result there was a bleeding. She has only stated to him
that accused touched her private parts only. The said victim even did
not state before him that accused threatened her that she wilh.be killed

if she reported the matter to her mother.

Similarly, the witness Smt. Rabita Devi, PW 2 did not state
before him that “one day her daughter was sleeping, “X” told her that
her private part was irritating. On that day, she did not tell anything.
Thereafter, approximately after 10 days\accused called her to see
cartoon in his house, then she told that she would not go. Then she
asked “X” as to why the accused was calling her. Then she told her that
about 10 days ago the accused. called her and her son Paban to see
cartoon in his house, .She,also,told her that accused allowed her son to
see cartoon in his laptopsin one room and the accused took her to next
room and made. her,lie, down on bed, open her pant and touched his
penis to her private part. Thereafter, “X” did not use to take food
properly. She ‘called the accused to their house and asked him and he
admitted his guilt and asked for apology. He also said that he will leave
thewvillage.” The I/O again stated that the witness Sri Manuj Prasad
Singh did not state before him that he came to know over mobile phone
from her wife while he was at Arunachal Pradesh. Similarly, the said
witness did not state before him that “X” reported to him that accused

inserted his private part to her private part.

25. PW 10 Miss Panchali Shyam is the Addl. Chief Judicial
Magistrate, Golaghat stated that on 05.08.2013 she was working as
Judicial Magistrate First Class, Tezpur. On that day, one victim “X”, aged
about 7 years, D/O Manoj Prasad Singh was produced before her for

recording her statement u/s 164 CrPC in reference to Missamari PS Case

 
Page 10 of 17

No. 86/13 under section 376 (f) of IPC (GR Case No. 1894/13) as she
was Elaka Magistrate. She has recorded her statement after testing her
intelligence and ability to gives rational answers. She has examined her
without on oath. She has recorded her statement in her chamber. The
statement made by the victim voluntarily. After recording her statement,
she has read over the contents to her then she put her signature. Ext 1
is the statement of victim “X” recorded by her and Ext 1 (5) is her
signature. Ext 9 is the GR Case No. 1894/13 and Ext 9 (1) is*her order
dated 05.08.2013 and Ext 9 (2) is her signature. In.her cross
examination, she admitted that the victim stated in her statement that

the incident took place in the morning hours.

26. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence

plea is total denial while his statement was*recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.

27. Learned counsel for thesaccused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove the case\beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly,
other than the victimnone «has» stated about the alleged incident.
Secondly, there is a clear evidence that the informant and the accused
has an enmitysdue to some quarrelled even they did not have any
visiting terms. Thirdly, there is a wide difference of time amongst the
statement. of the witnesses and also the FIR. According to FIR, the
incident ‘took, place about 3 ‘O’ clock in the evening but the printed FIR
is.totally silent as to the date and time of occurrence. According to the
victim, the incident occurred in the morning time. Thereafter, there is a
wide contradiction about the time of incident in between the FIR and
the statement of the victim. Fourthly, according to PW 2, the mother
of the victim stated that the victim reported the matter to her
approximately after 10 days of the incident. Fifth/y, the victim admitted
that when the accused inserted his male organ into her private part she
suffered pain and there was bleeding. She told this fact to her mother.
PW 5, Sri Paban Kumar Singh, brother of the victim stated that they
informed about the incident to their mother on that very date. Sixthly,

the victim was examined by the doctor after 20 days. The doctor

 
Page 11 of 17

reported nothing about the tear of hymen. There is no any evidence of
tear of hymen of victim. Doctor examined her injuries. The doctor
opined that there is no mark of violence or injury marks present on her
body as well as on her private parts and also there is no sign of recent
sexual intercourse. Ld. Counsel submitted that if a matured man
forcefully committed rape on a 9 years old minor girl she must have
sustained injury not only on her private parts but also on her body in
this case. Though, the victim was sustained injury on her private parts
but the doctor did not state that he found injury on her private parts.
Ld. Counsel further submitted that if a forceful. sexual ‘intercourse
occurred to a 9 years old girl there must be tear.of.hymen. Seventhly,
there is a wide contradiction amongst the statement of the witnesses.
As per example the victim stated that due to ‘forceful sexual intercourse
she was bleedings and sustained hurt but that has not stated to police
while her statement was recorded under section 161 CrPC. Though the
victim stated that at the relevant time accused made her lie down on
bed and inserted his penis after.opening her panty, in her private organ.
On the other hand, she said to police that the accused touched her
private parts only»Therefore, there is a contradiction as to insertion of
male organ.into her private parts and touching her private parts by his
penis. Againthe.statement of PW 2 Smt Rabita Devi that after about 10
days*of the incident accused called her to see cartoon in his house, then
she told that she would not go. Then she asked “X” as to why the
accused was Calling her. Then she told her that about 10 days ago the
accused called her and her son Paban to see cartoon in his house. She
also told her that accused allowed her son to see cartoon in his laptop in
one room and the accused took her to next room and made her lie
down on bed, open her pant and touched his penis to her private part.
Thereafter, “X” did not use to take food properly. That the aforesaid
statement was not stated before the I/O which is confirmed by the I.O.
These are the major contradiction. Therefore, the aforesaid statement

cannot be relied on.

 
Page 12 of 17

28. To fortify the argument, learned Sr. counsel for the accused
cited the following case laws. Firstly, to rely the solitary witness learned
counsel submitted (i) (2008) 1 GLR 111 (para 18) and (ii) (1997)
1 GLR 311.

For making statement substantially differs with the statement
given in the Court - (i) (1995) 1 GLR 421 and (ii) (2010) 4 GLR
567.

For serious omission in FIR - (i) (1996) 2 GLR_79 and.99 and
(ii) 2015 (2) GLT 71.

In regards to case diary statement cannot*besused as evidence—
(i) (2010) 1 SCC (Cri) 460 (Head Note.C), and (ii) 2011 (3) GLT
167.

29. Per contra, learned ,Public. Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur
submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond any
reasonable doubt, as such,.accused is required to be convicted under

the charged section of law.

30. I have thoroughly perused the case laws cited by the learned

Senior Counsel for the accused.

31. Keeping in mind the respective submissions advanced by learned

counsel for both parties, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.

32:;, A close scrutiny of the record, it appears that here there is only

one witness i.e. the victim PW 1. The others are reported witnesses.

33. The law is settled that the main evidence in all such cases is that
of the victim herself. In practice a conviction for rape almost entirely
depends on the credibility of the woman, so far as the essential
ingredients are concerned, the other evidence being merely
corroborative. It is not necessary that there should be independent
corroboration of every material circumstance in the sense that the

independent evidence in the case, apart from the testimony of the

 
Page 13 of 17

complainant, should in itself be sufficient to sustain conviction. All that is
required is that there must be some additional evidence rendering it
probable that the story of the complainant is true and that is reasonable
safe to act upon. The evidence, no doubt, should not only make it safe
to believe that the crime was committed but must in some way
reasonably connect or tend to connect the accused with the crime.

Corroboration may be by facts and circumstances.

34. Now, the question comes how far the evidence of the victim is

reliable and convincible to convict the accused.

Coming to the present case, according to the victim, the
occurrence took place during summer vacation, onesday in the morning
time but according to the written FIR, filed by the informant it is
specifically stated that the incident took placesat about 3 PM but in the
printed FIR the time and date ofthe alleged incident is silent. According
to the victim, at the relevant time accused came and called them to see
cartoon in his house. He thenegave his laptop to show cartoon to her
brother in one room and took her to another room where there was
T.V. He made herslie.down on bed and inserted his penis (Nunu), after
opening her.panty, in her private organ. She told him that she want to
go homerand she will tell her mother, then the accused threatened to
kill ~her..PW.5 Sri Paban Kumar Singh who also stated that at the
relevant time the accused called him and his sister “X” to watch cartoon.
Both of them went to the house of the accused. Accused allowed him to
see cartoon in his laptop in a room and took “X” to a different room. At
that time it was darkness. He could not see anything. After some time,
“X” came out and told him, on his asking that the accused uncle made
“X” to lie down on the bed and after opening her pant he inserted his
penis. But during the alleged occurrence the victim never raised any
protest, as she raised protest definitely her brother who was in the side
of the room might have heard. The brother of the victim even did not
state that he seen the incident but it is stated that he was reported by

the victim that the accused did the aforesaid act. Besides that according

 
Page 14 of 17

to the victim she reported the matter to her mother on that very next
day of the incident but according to her mother, the informant the
victim reported to her after 10 days of the incident. The statement of
the informant is such that while on that day the accused called her to
see cartoon, she was not go there. On such refusal her mother asked
her why she did not go to the house of the accused then the victim told
her that10 days ago the accused allowed her brother to see cartoon in
his laptop in one room and the accused took her to next*room and
made her lie down on bed, open her pant and touched_his ‘penis to her
private part. Thereafter, “X” did not use to take food.properly. The
aforesaid statement as reported by the victim to her mother after 10
days as stated by the informant neither in the, Court nor in her
statement under section 161 CrPC or in her.statement u/s 164 CrPC.
Therefore, it appears a contradiction in between the statement of the

victim and her mother as to the-alleged incident.

Besides that the I/O admitted that the victim did not state before
him that “accused Subhash inserted his penis into her vagina” She again
did not state that\“as*ayresult there was a bleeding”. In fact, these
statement in reference.to the instant case is vital one which is found
contradictory. The 1/O only admitted that the victim stated before him
that the accused touched her private parts only. The victim even not
Stated before the I/O that the “accused threatened her that she will be
killed if-she reported the matter to her mother”. The another vital
contradiction is in the statement of the informant that the said Rabita
Devi did not state before him that one day her daughter was sleeping,
“X” told her that her private part was irritating. On that day, she did not
tell anything. The said witness also did not state before him that “after
10 days accused called her to see cartoon in his house, then she told
that she would not go. Then she asked “X” as to why the accused was
calling her. Then “X” told her that about 10 days ago the accused called
her and her son Paban to see cartoon in his house. She also told her
that accused allowed her son to see cartoon in his laptop in one room

and the accused took her to next room and made her lie down on bed,

 
Page 15 of 17

open her pant and touched his penis to her private part. Thereafter, “X”
did not use to take food properly.” The said Rabita Devi/informant also
did not state before the I/O that “ sShe called the accused to their
house and asked him and he admitted his guilt and asked for apology.
He also said that he will leave the village.” So these are the major

contradiction.

35. It has been held in "Jahsildar Singh vs State of Uttar
Pradesh reported in AIR 1959 SC 1012” wherein the Hon’ble
Supreme Court held that — " (1) A statement in writing made by witness
before a police officer in the course of investigation can.be used only to
contradict his statement in the witness box and for.no other purpose.
(2) Statements not reduced to writing by the.Police Officer cannot be
used for contradictions. (3) Thougha particular statement is not
recorded, a statement that can be deemed.to be part of that expressly
recorded can be used for contradictions not because it is an omission
strictly so called but because 11°it is deemed to form part of the
recorded statement. Such.a fiction is permissible by construction only in
the following threé.cases;.- (i) when a recital is necessarily implied from
the recital or recitals found in the statement, (ii) a negative aspect of a
positive recital or recitals in a statement and (iii) when the statement

before.the police and before the court cannot stand together.”

36. ~— As discussed herein before the aforesaid contradictions are not a
minor, These are major contradictions. Therefore, it cannot be ignored
even if admitted the said contradictions as a evidence it will cause
prejudged to the accused as such the aforesaid contradictory
statements are not relied on to convict the accused. Another point is to
be discussed in the present case is that as submitted by the Ld. Counsel
for the accused that though the victim stated that due to such act of the
accused she sustained injury on her private parts and it was bleeding
but doctor report is totally silent as of any injury not only on her private
part but also on her body. The statement of the doctor even had silent

as to the position of hymen of the victim. According to medical

 
Page 16 of 17

jurisprudence if a person forcefully committed rape on a girl of about 9
years, she must have sustained injury not only on her private parts but
also on her body. But in the instant case the doctor found no any injury
not only on her private parts or any organ of the body of the victim.
Besides the person such type of alleged injury or bleedings as stated by
the victim is not supported by any of the witnesses. Even the mother of
the victim did not state that due to such heinous act of the accused the
victim sustained injury on her private parts and bleedings occurred on
her private parts. Therefore, statement of victim as to sustain injury due

to alleged penetrative sexual assault is doubtful.

37. In view of the aforesaid discussion, the statement of the victim
is not found to be consent and convincing), reliable to convict the
accused only on her sole solitary witness. Therefore, accused is entitled
to get the benefit of doubt and set him at liberty forthwith.

38. The liabilities of the bailorishereby discharged.

39. Let the G.R Case No. 1894/2013 be sent to Ld. committal Court

along with a copy of Judgment.

40. Given_undermy Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 17” day of
August, 2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
SP So ee bh Pe

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7
Prosecution Witness No.8
Prosecution Witness No.9
Prosecution Witness No.10

Exhibit 1
Cr.P.C.

Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3
Exhibit 4
Exhibit 5
Exhibit 6
Exhibit. 7
Exhibits
Exhibit 9

Page 17 of 17

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

:“ Victim.

= Smt. Rabita Devi, informant

i- Dr. Amarjit Kaur

- Sri Manoj Prasad Singh.

i= Sri Paban Kumar Singh

'- Sri Santosh Prasad Singh

'- Smt. Narmada Pun

- Smt. Lila Mushahari,

:- Sri Pranab Baishya, I-O,

:- Miss P. Shyam, Addl. C.JsM),Golaghat

EXHIBITS.

:- Statement of the victim u/s 164

= FIR

i Medical report

ys Advice Slip.

- Laboratory Report.

=“ X-Ray Report.

- Sketch Map

' Charge Sheet

GR Case No. 1894/13

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
