Special Case No.45/2015
U/s.4 of POCSO Act, 2012
G.R 4622/2014

State of Assam
in Vs —_
Jahirul Hoque

Present : Sri Rajib Goswami, AJS
Special Judge, Dhubri

Sri M. Zaman, Public Prosecutor, Dhubri for the State.
Sri Moktadir Mondal, Advocate for the defence.

Date of Evidence ; 18-02-2016 & 26-02-2016
Argument Heard : 21-03-2016
Date of Judgment : 31-03-2016

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case in the FIR in brief is that one Ahima Bibi
had lodged the FIR at Gauripur Police Station to the effect that on 05-11-2014 at
around 9:30 a.m. the accused Jahirul Hoque was caught in the act of
committing penetrative sexual assault on her minor daughter who is said to have
been enticed away by the accused to his house from the courtyard of the
informant’s house where the victim was playing with her brother immediately

before the alleged occurrence.

2s Upon the FIR a case was registered by the O.C, Gauripur Police
Station U/s. 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offence Act against the
accused Jahirul Hoque. The case was investigated into by the I.O. and after
completion of investigation, charge sheet against the accused Jahirul Hoque was
filed in the Court u/s.4 of POCSO Act.

3. Accused person appeared before the Court. Charge u/s.4 of
POCSO Act had been framed against the accused Jahirul Hoque. Charge had
been read over, explained and interpreted to accused to which accused pleaded

not guilty and claimed to be tried.

 

[Special Case No.45/2015]
Page 1
4. The prosecution had examined as many as 7 (seven) witnesses
including the I.0. & M.O. Accused person was examined generally on the
circumstances coming up against him in the evidence of P.Ws. Accused person

pleaded total denial and declined to adduce any evidence in his defence.

5. POINT FOR DETERMINATION

Whether the accused Jahirul Hoque on 05-11-2015 at around
9:30 a.m. at village Dumardoha Pt-IV under Gauripur P.S. committed
penetrative sexual assault on the minor, daughter of the informant
Ahima Bibi and as such had committed an offence u/s.4 of the POCSO
Act, 2012?

DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREON

6. PW-1, the victim who stated to be 6 years old on the day her
evidence had been recorded was able to give rational answer to the questions
put to her to ascertain whether she was in a position to give rational answer to
the questions put to her while she was examined on camera. PW-1 had stated
that on the date of the alleged occurrence she was playing at the courtyard of
her house when she was enticed by accused Johirul to accompany him to his
house and then at his house the accused stripped her of her undergarments. Her
grand-mother, brother and sister came and had seen the accused in the said act

and thereafter she was taken to her house.

7. PW-2, Musstt. Ahima Bibi not finding her daughter at school time,
had asked her mother to search for her. In the mean time, one of her sons came
running to her and informed her that her daughter was inside the house of
accused Johirul Hoque @ Raju. PW-2 had immediately rushed to the house of
accused Johirul @ Raju and had found her daughter lying on the ground and the
accused was on top of her daughter. Her daughter’s undergarment was found
removed from her body. On seeing PW-2 Johirul had fled away. PW-2 had
lodged the FIR bearing her thumb impression.

 

[Special Case No.45/2015] Page 2
In her cross-examination PW-2 had reiterated about staying
at her father’s house. It is also revealed from the cross-examination of PW-2
the house of the accused is located opposite her father’s house. According to
PW-2, the accused has three sisters, two brothers and his parents. They all live
in the same house. Adjacent west of her house is the Madrassa where around
100 to 200 pupils attend classes regularly. According to PW-2, father of the
accused Johirul and her father are step brothers and she was aware that her
father had initiated criminal proceedings against the father of Johirul three
times. PW-2 had denied the suggestion with regard to not having stated to the
1.0. about seeing accused on the top of her daughter and also about seeing her

daughter with her undergarment removed from her body.

8. PW-3 Md. Azizur Rahman, the father of the victim on his
return from his work had been told by his wife about Johirul attempting to

commit sexual assault on his daughter.

In his cross-examination he had stated that he had not seen the
alleged occurrence and he also failed to recollect the date of birth of his

daughter.

9. PW-4, Musstt. Omarjan Bibi, the grandmother of the victim had
known accused Jahirul Hoque. On the day of the alleged occurrence she had
gone in search for her granddaughter and came to know that she was in the
house of Jahirul. Having arrived at the house of Jahirul she had seen the
accused atop her granddaughter, pinning her granddaughter to the ground with
the weight of his body. On seeing her accused had fled away from the place of

occurrence and she had brought back the victim to the house.

In her cross-examination she had admitted to Grand-father of
Johirul and her husband being step brothers. PW had also admitted to criminal
proceedings pending in the Court, having been initiated by her family and family
of accused persons against each other. According to PW-4 they have no visiting

terms with the accused person.

 

[Special Case No.45/2015] Page 3
10. PW-5, Md. Ahammed Ali, the grandfather of the victim had stated
about accused Johirul Hoque being his immediate neighbour and about accused
Jahirul Hoque taking his granddaughter to his house and attempted to commit
sexual assault upon her. PW-5 admitted not having seen the alleged occurrence.

He had heard about the alleged occurrence from his family.

In his cross-examination PW-5 had admitted to accused being
the son of his step brother. According to PW-5 his step brother had sold his
share of ancestral property to Madrassa. PW-5 also admitted to a criminal case

pending against him having been brought by the father of the accused.

11. PW-7 Dr. (Mrs) Rinku Ahmed had stated that on 06-11-2012 she
was posted at, Dhubri Health & Maternity Centre. On that day she had examined
the victim, Sarjina Khatun, D/o. Azizur Rahman of village Dumardaha, Dist.
Dhubri and had found on external examination that the victim was normal, no
external injury was noticed. According to Pw-7, PV examination could not be
done as the orifice was very small and there was no mark of injury seen around
her private parts. According to PW-7 her findings are not consistent with recent
sexual intercourse and assault. Ext-5 is her report bearing her signature ext-5

(1).

12. PW-6 S.I. Sahab Uddin Ahmed had stated that 05-11-2014 he
was working as i/c. Balajan Police Outpost when he had received a written FIR
from one Ahima Bibi. The FIR had been received after same being registered at
Gauripur P.S. On 06-11-2014 at around 1 p.m. he had visited the place of
occurrence, Dumordoha Part-IV. Then he had forwarded the victim to Civil
Hospital, Dhubri for examination. He had also got the statement of the victim
recorded u/s.164 of Cr.PC before the Magistrate. Despite having made several
attempts to arrest the accused he had failed to do so. On 17-11-2014 he had
collected the medical report of the victim. Ext-3 is the seizure list bearing his
signature, ext-3 (1) through which he had seized the undergarment of the victim
on 06-11-2014.

 

[Special Case No.45/2015] Page 4
In his cross-examination PW-6 on his attention having been
drawn to the statement of PW-2, Ahima Bibi u/s. 161 of Cr.PC, PW-6 had denied
having been told by the said witness that not finding her daughter during school
time, she had sent her mother to search for her daughter. The said PW had also
not told him about her son coming to her and informing her that the victim was
seen at the house of the accused. The said PW had not disclosed to him that on
being informed by her son she had gone to the house of the accused and had
seen the accused on the top of her daughter and about having seen the
undergarment of her daughter removed. PW-2, Ahima Bibi is the mother of the
victim. PW-3 is the father of the victim, PW-4 Amorjan Bibi is the grandmother
of the victim. PW-5 is the victims’ grandfather. Apart from these witnesses he
had not examined any independent witnesses. The undergarment he had seized

of the victim had been handed over by the mother of the victim.

Above is the threadbare discussion of evidence on record.

13. Now coming to the evidence of the victim, PW-1, she had only
related about accused stripping her of her undergarment and she had said
nothing beyond this. PW-2, the mother of the victim stated to have seen the
accused on the top of her daughter with her daughter’s undergarment removed.
PW-3, Azizur Rahman stated to have heard from his wife about the accused
trying to sexually assault his daughter. PW-4, Omarjan Bibi, the grandmother of
the victim stated to have seen the accused pinning her granddaughter to the
ground with the weight of his body. On seeing her, the accused had fled away.
PW-5, Ahmed Ali, the grandfather of the victim denied having seen the alleged

occurrence and he had heard about the alleged occurrence from his family.

14. Learned defence counsel had submitted before the Court that
evidence of PW-1 to PW-4, in support of the prosecution case is the evidence of
near relatives of the victim and as such there evidence has to be looked into as

to its reliability in the light of evidence of independent witnesses.

15. Now having taken into consideration submission of the learned
counsels for both sides, I however am inclined to agree with learned P.P. since
the victim has implicated the accused of stripping of her under garments and

her grandmother, her brother and her sister had caught the accused in the act.

 

[Special Case No.45/2015] Page 5
Considering the victim was only six years old on the day of the alleged
occurrence and the evidence of the M.O. with regard to findings during her
examination supporting the tender age of the victim, her evidence inspires
confidence and as such I am inclined to hold the evidence of PW-1 being wholly
reliable. Further, I am inclined to rely upon the evidence of PW-4 Omarjan Bibi,
the grandmother of the victim as wholly reliable since she had seen the accused
pinning the victim to the ground by the weight of his body and PW-4’S presence
at the place of occurrence and catching the victim in the act had also been
related to by the victim in her evidence. The defence failed to assail the
evidence of PW-4. Though as per the evidence discussed above and in view of
the evidence of the M.O. the offence of penetrative sexual assault as provided
in Section 4 of the POCSO Act is not attracted as against the accused but then
there is sufficient evidence supporting the prosecution version holding the
accused guilty of having committed sexual assault for the purpose of offence
punishable u/s 8 of POCSO Act.

16. In order to bring home charge u/s.8 of POCSO Act, the victim
should be a minor. Considering the appearance of the victim supported by the
evidence of M.O. that the PV examination could not be done as introit-us of the
victim is very small, the fact that she was below 18 years was not required to be
substantiated separately. This piece of evidence is remained uncontroverted
since in her statement u/s.164 of Cr.PC she had stated her age to be 6 years.
The PW-1 being herself the victim is not free of apprehension and may not be
able to disclose the entire occurrence and there may be some minor
contradiction with regard to her explanation of the alleged occurrence.
However, the evidence of the victim with regard to the accused having stripped
her of her undergarments and the evidence of PW-4, the grandmother, having
caught the accused in the act immediately thereafter are circumstances which
remained uncontroverted, consistent with the offence of sexual assault as
enumerated u/s.7 of POCSO Act. Section 7 of the POCSO Act envisages that
“Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the
child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person
or any other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which involves

physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault.

 

[Special Case No.45/2015] Page 6
17. Thus the prosecution has been able to establish in the light of
the evidence above the offence u/s. 8 of the POCSO Act beyond all reasonable
doubt against the accused. The accused is convicted accordingly u/s.8 of
POCSO Act in the light of S-222 of Cr.P.C. instead of for offence under Sec. 4 of
POCSO Act, for which the accused was charged.

18. Accused is heard on point of sentence. Accused person pleaded
for leniency. Considering the nature of offence proved to have been committed
by the accused I do not find it a fit case for rendering the benefit of release on
Probation of Good Conduct under Probation of offenders act 1958. Considering
minimum punishment provided for the offence u/s.8 of the POCSO Act being R.I.
for 3 (three) years and fine, I am inclined to provide minimum punishment to
the accused. The accused is sentenced to R.I. for 3 (three) years and a fine of
Rs.1,000/- in default to S.I. for 2 (two) months. I am also inclined to
recommend the victim for compensation u/s.356 (A) of Cr.PC to be received by
her mother. Accordingly a copy of the judgment be sent to DLSA, Dhubri for

ascertaining the quantum of compensation to be paid.

19. Accused be given a free copy of the judgment free of cost
immediately u/s 363 (1) of Cr. PC. Earlier detention of the accused Jahirul
Hoque, if any is to be set off as against the sentence of imprisonment u/s.428 of
Cr.PC.

20. A copy of the judgment be furnished to the D.M, Dhubri u/s.365
of Cr.PC.

Given under my hand and seal of the Court on this 31% day of
March, 2016.

Dictated & Corrected by me
Special Judge, Dhubri

Special Judge, Dhubri.

 

[Special Case No.45/2015] Page 7
APPENDIX

A. Prosecution Witness.
P.W-1 - Musstt. Sarjina Khatun
P.W-2 - Musstt. Ahima Bibi
P.W-3 - Md. Azizur Rahman
P.W-4 - Musstt. Omarjan Bibi
PW-5 - Md. Ahammed Ali
PW-6 - S.I. Sahab Uddin Ahmed
PW-7 - Dr. (Mrs.) Rinku Ahmed

B. Court Witness

Nil

C. Defence Witness
Nil

D. Prosecution Exhibits.
Ext-1 - FIR
Ext-2 - Sketch Map
Ext-3 - Seizure-list.
Ext-4 - Charge sheet.
Ext-5 - Medical Report.

D. Defence Exhibit

Nil

Special Judge, Dhubri

 

[Special Case No.45/2015] Page 8
