IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE,

KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present : Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Sessions Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

Special Case No. 05/2017 corresponding to GR Case
No.420/2017 & Dillai Police Station Case No. 10/2017
Under Section 12 of the POCSO Act.
State of Assam
Versus
Md Kabir Ahmed, Accused

Name of informant/complainant: Shri Ren Sing Timung
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Kabir Ahmed
S/o :- Late Rohmad Ali
Vill-Dakhin Samari Ali, Choudhury Bazar
P.S : Morajhar
District: Hojai.

Advocates appeared:
For the prosecution: Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor

For the defence : Ms Ruby Sarkar
Argument heard on : 03.11.2018.
Judgment pronounced & delivered on : 14.11.2017

JUDGMENT
1. It is a case of sexual harassment alleged to have been

committed by the accused to Miss Ganga Singnerpi while

she was going to Dillai Bazar under Dillai Police Station.
2.

The prosecution case in brief is that on 11.6.2017, the
informant-Shri Rensing Timung lodged an ejahar with Dillai
Police Station stating inter alia that on 09.6.2017 at about
2 PM his sister, Miss Ganga Singnerpi aged about 14 years
went to Dillai Bazar for shopping. As she did not come back
from the bazar, they started searching her, but they did

not find any clue of her whereabouts.

On receipt of the ejahar, O/C, Dillai Police Station
registered a PS Case No.10/2017 U/S 3663/370(A) of IPC.
On completion of investigation of the case, the
Investigating Police Officer submitted charge-sheet U/S
363 of IPC R/W Se.4 of the POCSO Act against the accused

person.

On completion of appearance of the accused person, copy
was furnished to him. After hearing learned counsels of
both sides as well as case diary, charge U/S 12 of the
POCSO Act against the accused person was framed. The
particular of the charged offense was duly read over and
explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty

and claimed to be tried.

Prosecution has examined as many as eight witnesses.
Statement of accused U/S 313 of Cr.P.C. was recorded.

Defence declined to adduce evidence.

Point for determination

Whether the accused person on 09.6.2017 at about 2
PM at the area of Dillai Bazar under Dillai Police Station
caused sexual harassment to Miss Ganga Singnerpi aged
about 14 years and that he thereby committed an offense
punishable U/S 12 of the POCSO Act ?
9.

10.

Decisions and reasons thereof:

I have very carefully gone through verbal arguments
advanced by the learned counsels of both sides as well as
evidence on record. Learned counsel appearing on behalf
of the accused person has contended that the prosecution
has miserably failed to prove its case against the accused
person beyond all reasonable doubts. On the other hand,
the learned Public Prosecutor, Mr. D.K. Deka refuting the
aforesaid submission has submitted that the prosecution
has succeeded in establishing its case against the accused
person beyond all reasonable doubts. Prior to rebutting the
rival submissions, it would be appropriate to give a glance

at evidence record.

PW1-Shri Rensing Timung is the informant of this case
who stated that the occurrence took place in the year
2017. On the day of occurrence,while his sister,Ganga
Singnarpi did not come back from school, the started
searching her. As her whereabouts could not be traced
out,he lodged an ejahar at Dillai Police Station. Ext.1 is
ejahar and Ext.1(1) is his signature. One of his friends
informed him that accused lured his sister away. He
collected the phone number of the accused and gave it to
police. Accused informed him that he kidnapped his sister.
Police could find the clue of accused at Sivasagar. He along
with his brother, Kemsing Timung and police went to
Sivasagar. Before reaching Sivasagar police station, police
had already apprehended the victim and accused and kept
them at police station. On the third day of his sister's
missing, police recovered her. Thereafter, they came back
to Dillai Police station. Police of Dillai PS got the victim
examined and her statement recorded in the court. The

Court handed over the victim to him. At the time of
11.

12.

occurrence, age of the victim was 14 years. The victim
informed him that accused took her to Sivasagar forcibly by
the train and bus. Although the victim was not in love with
the accused person, but they stayed for three days as
husband and wife.

Shri Kemsing Timug deposed that he knows the
informant, accused and the victim. The occurrence took
place in the year 2013. The informant informed him that
the victim on the previous day went to Dillai market and
did not come back. He advised the informant to search her
and he also started searching. After two days of the
occurrence, the informant lodged the ejahar. A friend of
the accused informed that the accused eloped the victim.
They collected the phone number of the accused from his
friend and gave it to police. Through the mobile number
police could locate that the accused was staying at
Sivasagar. Thereafter, police took him and the informant to
Naziram Police Station. Accused along with the victim
appeared at Nazira Police Station as they knew that police
were searching them. Thereafter, police of Dillai PS took
the accused and victim back to Dillai and they also came
with them. At the time of occurrence, victim attained the
age of 14-15 years.

PW-3, Smti. Sika Singnarpi deposed that she knows the
informant who is her brother. She also knows the victim.
He does not know the accused person. The incident took
place in the year 2017. On the day of occurrence, the
victim went to Dillai market. As she did not return home,
they searched her. Later she came to know that the
accused eloped the victim. At that time, the victim was 14
years old. Later they could know that the accused took the
victim to Sivasagar. They went to Sivasagar in search of
the victim. By that time, police left for Sivasagar and after

recovery, police took the victim and accused to Dillai Police
13.

14.

Station. On her interrogation, the victim told that she and
accused used to stay at Sivasagar as husband and wife and
she(victim) informed her(PW-3) that there occurred
physical contact between them. Later, police took the
victim to Diphu Civil Hospital for her medical examination
and caused the statement of the victim recorded in the
Court.

PW-4, Shri Rocket Timung deposed that he knows
informant and the victim. He does not know the accused.
The occurrence took place in the month of July, 2017. At
the time of occurrence, he was at Diphu. On the
subsequent day of the occurrence, the informant informed
him about the missing of his sister, Ganga Singnarpi. At the
time of occurrence, the victim was 14 years old. Police
could locate the whereabouts of the accused in Sivasagar.
Accordingly, he and informant went to Sivasagar and
stayed in a hotel. On the next day morning, when he and
the informant went out for morning walk, they saw the
accused and victim coming on a rickshaw. After a while,
police of Nazira PS arrived there and apprehended them
and handed over them to Sivasagar Police Station.
Thereafter, police of Dillai PS arrived at Sivasagar Police
Station and took them to Dillai Police Station. PW-4 further
stated that the accused who was present on the day of his
deposition kidnapped the victim.

PW-5, Shri Ramjan Uddin is a co-driver of the accused.
They lived together. Initially, he did not know about the
occurrence. On the third day of the occurrence when the
village people insisted him for whereabouts of the accused,
then he rang him over phone. The accused informed him
that he was staying at Sivasagar along with the victim. He
gave the phone number of the accused to the villagers and

then police arrested the accused person.
15.

16.

PW-6 is Dr. Minakshi Terangpi deposed that on
14.6.2017 she examined Smti. Ganga Singnarpi under
police requisition in connection with Dillai Police Station
Case No.10/2017. She stated that the victim gave history
of sexual intercourse with that person. On examination,
she found her hymen torn. She found the victim pregnant
following the test done for pregnancy. She found dry
smear of posterior swab for spermatozoa, but no
spermatozoa was detected. She found no injury on her
private part or other parts of body. As per report of USG of
full abdomen, the victim was pregnant. PW-6 could not be
ascertained as to the age of the victim as there is contra
indication of X-ray during pregnancy. Ext.2 is the medical
report and Ext.2(1) is my signature.

PW-7 is Miss Ganga Singnarpi is the alleged victim of this
case who deposed that the informant is her brother and
she could identify the accused person. The _ incident
occurred before the election of 2017. On the day of
occurrence, she went to Dillai bazar and in the bazar, she
met the accused. He proposed her for a journey and he got
her boarded in a vehicle. At that time, the accused tied a
talisman on her right hand and thereafter, she lost her
normal intuition. Then they moved to Dimapur by the said
vehicle and from there they left for Sivasagar by train.
From Sivasagar, the accused took her to Nazira and kept
her in a her in a house for two/three days. No other
persons stayed there except them. During those days,
accused did not make any physical contact(Beya Kam) with
her. Thereafter, police apprehended them and took them
to Nazira Police Station. Police personnel of Dillai PS took
them to Dillai and got her medically examined at Diphu
Civil Hospital and her statement recorded in the Court.
Ext.6 is her statement and Ext.6(1) and 6(2) are her

signature. At the time of occurrence, she was 13 years old.
17.

18.

19.

PW-8, Shri Kalpajit Sharma is the investigating police
officer of this case. He investigated the case as per
procedures laid down in Cr.P.C. and on completion of the
investigation, he had submitted the charge-sheet U/S 366
of IPC and 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused
person. Ext.5 is charge-sheet and Ext.5 (1) is his signature.
He also exhibited the seizure list as Ext.4 and 4(1) is his
signature.

For attracting the sections 363 IPC and 12 of the POCSO
Act, the victim child needs to be below 18 years. PW-1 to
PW-4 are the nearest relatives of the victim child and all of
them categorically have stated that at the time of
occurrence, she was 13 to 15 years old. PW-6 is the
medical officer who has stated that he could not ascertain
the actual age of the victim due to contra indication of X-
Ray during pregnancy. The victim child has stated in her
evidence that she was 13 years at the time of occurrence.
During the cross-examination of PW-1 to PW-4 including
the victim child marked as PW-7, no suggestion was put
forward by the defence denying that the victim child at the
time of occurrence was above 18 years. In view of the
discussion made above it can be held that at the time of
occurrence, the victim child was below 18 years.

PW-1 is the informant who is the elder brother of the
victim child. His evidence shows that police of Dillai Police
Station after knowing that the accused was in Sivsagar
with the victim child went there with him and his cousin
named Kemsing Timung. Reaching there they found that
police from Sivsagar Police Station already had taken the
accused and the victim child to Sivsagar Police Station. The
victim was with the accused person for three days and at
that time she was 14 years old. After recovery, the victim
child was given to his custody. According to PW-2, the

victim child and the accused were caught by police of
20.

21.

Nazira Police Station. His evidence also shows that the
victim child was 14/15 years old. From the evidence of PW-
3 and PW-4 it appearance that the police caught the
accused and the victim child together.

In this case the victim child is the most vital witness who
has stated in her deposition that on the day of occurrence
she met the accused at Dillai Bazar where from the
accused picked up her to a motor vehicle saying that he
would take her for roaming. After settling in the vehicle,
the accused tied a Tabij on her hand and there after she
became speechless. First the accused took her to Dimapur
in a motor vehicle and there from she was taken to
Sivsagar in Train. From Sivsagar she was taken to Nazira
wherein she was kept in a rented house for two days. The
police from Nazira after apprehending the accused with the
victm child to Nazira Police Station where from they were
taken to Dillai Police Station by their police personnel. Only
suggestion put forwarded during cross-examination of the
victim child that she fled away with the accused person on
her sweet will. Evidence of the victim child clearly shows
that she did not raise any sort of shouting on the way from
Dillai Bazar to Nazira and that she got into motor vehicle in
Dillai Bazar on her sweet will.

PW-8 is the investigating officer who has clearly stated in
his evidence that the accused and the victim were caught
by the police from Nazira Police Station. Now it has
become crystal clear that the accused took to Nazira where
he kept the victim child for two days. Minor consent
amounts to no consent. There is no evidence on record
showing that the accused took the victim child with
consent of her guardian. Ext-6 is statement of the victim
child recorded under section 164 of the CrPC which shows

that she did not intend to go with the accused far away.
22.

23.

24.

The victim child has clearly stated in her evidence that
the accused did not commit any foul with her though the
medical report marked shows that she was carrying 19
week pregnancy. The victim child did not disclose by whom
she became pregnant. Her evidence does not show that
prior to the occurrence she had any love affair with the

accused.

The word “ sexual harassment” is defined in the section
11 of the POCSO Act which reads thus-“ 11. Sexual
harassment.-A person is said to commit sexual harassment
upon a child when such person with sexual intent,- i. utters
any word or makes any sound, or makes any gesture or exhibits
any object or part of body with the intention that such word or
sound shall be heard, or such gesture or object or part of body
shall be seen by the child; or ii. © makes a child exhibit his
body or any part of his body so as it is seen by such person or
any other person; or iii. | shows any object to a child in any
form or media for pornographic purposes; or iv. — repeatedly
or constantly follows or watches or contacts a child either directly
or through electronic, digital or any other means;
or v. threatens to use, in any form of media, a real or
fabricated depiction through electronic, film or digital or any
other mode, of any part of the body of the child or the
involvement of the child in a sexual act; or vi. | entices a child
for pornographic purposes or gives gratification
therefore.Explanation.- Any question which involves "sexual

intent" shall be a question of fact.”

The section 12 of the POCSO Act relates to commission
of sexual harassment which is defined in the section 11 of
the POCSO Act. In view of discussion made above I find
that the prosecution has failed to its case under section 12
of the POCSO Act.
25.

26.

Section 363 of the IPC relates to punishment for
kidnapping minor from their legal guardian which
reads thus:-“ 363. Punishment for kidnapping.—
Whoever kidnaps any person from 1[India] or from
lawful guardianship, shall be punished’ with
imprisonment of either description for a term which
may extend to seven years, and shall also be liable

to fine.”

The section 361 of IPC relax to kidnapping from the
lawful guardianship which reads thus:-" 36. Kidnapping
from lawful guardianship.—Whoever takes or
entices any minor under 1[sixteen] years of age if a
male, or under 2[eighteen] years of age if a female,
or any person of unsound mind, out of the keeping
of the lawful guardian of such minor or person of
unsound mind, without the consent of such
guardian, is said to kidnap such minor or person
from lawful guardianship. Explanation.—The words
“lawful guardian” in this section include any person
lawfully entrusted with the care or custody of such
minor or other person.(Exception) —This section
does not extend to the act of any person who in
good faith believes himself to be the father of an
illegitimate child, or who in good faith believes
himself to be entitled to lawful custody of such
child, unless such act is committed for an immoral

or unlawful purpose.”
27.

28.

29.

However I find that the prosecution has succeeded in
establishing its case under section 363 of the IPC against
the accused beyond all reasonable doubts.

Order

In the result I find the accused person Kabir Ahmed
guilty under section 363 of the IPC and according he is
convicted.

On the point of sentence, the accused is heard and to
that effect his statement is recorded. The Ld lawyer on
behalf of the accused has submitted that accused is
coming from a humble back ground who is to look after his
entire family consisting his old age mother, sister and
brothers and as such the accused is deserved to be
punished leniently. The accused is just young man and
there is a no evidence on record showing that earlier
convicted by the court of law. There are sufficient time for
the accused for reform. Taking all aspect into consideration
as well as fact of the case I am of the opinion that the
accused is deserve to be punished leniently. Accordingly I
do hereby asked the accused to suffer SI of 4 (Four)
months and to pay fine of Rs. 5000/- (Rupees Five
Thousand) i/d SI of 1(One) month. Set off his earlier
detention period. Let a certify copy of the Judgment and
order to the accused is free of cost. Let the fine money be
paid to the victim if realized. No recommendation for
compensation under section 357A of the CrPC is made.

Accordingly the case is dispose of on contest.

Dictated and corrected

by me.
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

Dictation taken and

Transcribed by me.

Stenographer Grade-I.

APPENDIX

Prosecution witnesses:
PW1-Shri Rensing Timung
PW-2 is victim girl statement.
PW-3, Smti. Sika Singnarpi
PW-4, Shri Rocket Timung
PW-5, Shri Ramjan

PW-6 is Dr. Minakshi Terangpi
PW-7 is Miss Gonga Singnarpi
PW-8 is OC Kalpajit Sharma

Defence witnesses: Nil.

Prosecution exhibits:

Ext-1 is Ejahaar

Ext-2 is Medical Report
Ext-3 is Sketch Map

Ext-4 is Seizure List

Ext-5 is Charge Sheet.
Ext-6 is Victim’s statement
Defence Exhibited: Nil

Sessions Judge,

Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
