We

@pecial Judge,

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

 

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,

Special Judge,

Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSQ) CASE NO. 24 (DH)/ 2017.
U/S 313/376 of IPC R/W Sec.4 of POCSO Act.

The State of Assam
- Versus ~
Shri Chansumai Basumatary
S/O Dilip Basumatary,
R/O Sonapur Gaon,
P.S. Gogamukh,

Dist.- Dhemaii.

Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla,
Public Prosecutor

Shri B. Gogoi, Advocate

Date of prosecution evidence

Date of argument

Date of Judgment

a Accused Person

.For the State

For the Accused

: 31-10-2018

: 20-11-2018

: 30-11-2018.
JUDGMENT

ds The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 08-06-2017
complainant- Smt. Ajanta Basumatary lodged an ejahar with Silapathar Police
Station alleging interalia that about one year ago from the date of filing the
ejahar on 08-06-2017, on several dates the accused committed sexual
intercourse with her minor daughter-Smti ‘X’ (name is withheld) at different
places by inducing her and with false promise of marriage. _ It is also alleged
in the ejahar that the accused threatened her daughter not to disclose the
fact of sexual intercourse to anybody else and in case of pregnancy arises
due to sexual intercourse, he used to abort her pregnancy by administering
tablets to her (victim). Further, it is alleged in the ejahar that the accused on
08-06-2017 called her daughter over phone to go to a lonely place in
between Dimow and Dipa where the accused was waiting there with his
Kwid car bearing Registration No.AS-22 —D/4870. As soon as she (victim)
reached the place, the accused got-up her into the said vehicle and he
forcibly tried to commit rape on her inside the vehicle. When she (victim)
protested the accused quarreled with her and ultimately took her to their
gate-way in the vehicle and kept her (victim) inside the vehicle by locking the

door of the vehicle and he fled away.

Be On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused-Chansumai Basumatary u/s 4 of the POCSO Act.

a On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charges u/s 313/376 of IPC R/W Sec. 4 of POCSO Act
and read-over and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The
prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined four witnesses. At the

closure of the prosecution evidence statement of the accused was recorded
Ne (%

Special Judge,
Dhemall.

u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. However, the defence adduced

no evidence in support of his defence.

4. Point for determination :

 

(1) That, you before 8-6-2017 on different dates and places you
caused Smti ‘*X’ then being with child to miscarry without her
consent, such miscarriage not being caused by you in good faith
for the purpose of saving the life of the said victim ‘Xx’ and
thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 313 of IPC.

(2) That, you before 8-6-2017 on different dates and places
committed rape on Smti ‘Xx’ having sexual intercourse against her
will and consent and thereby you committed an offence
punishable u/s 376 of IPC.

(3) That, you before 8-6-2017 on different dates and places
committed penetrative sexual assault on Smti ‘Xx’ and thereby
you committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

5. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof

et ee eee Ce ee OO

6. PW1 the victim Smti ‘X’ stated that the complainant is her
mother. She knows the accused. The incident took place about one year back.
She had developed friendship with the accused and she used to meet him.
She also used to go out in the vehicle with the accused. On the date of
occurrence she went to Demow with the accused in his vehicle and the
accused asked her to go to a certain place, but she refused. Then there was
heated exchange of words between them. As she returned home late in the
evening, her parents were angry with her. On being asked she told her
parents that the accused took her to Demow. Then her mother lodged
complaint before police. Police recorded her statement u/s 161 Cr.PC. Police
got her medically examined. She gave statement before Magistrate as tutored
by her parents.
3

Special Judge,
Dhemall.

In her cross-examination PW1 stated that the accused was
always friendly with the accused. He never abused her physically though they
developed intimacy. On the date of occurrence differences arose between us
regarding visiting a place. After filing of the case, she realized that she was
unnecessarily harsh towards the accused. Now, they are maintaining cordial
relation with the accused. Her parents and she decided not to proceed
against the accused. She has further stated that she has no objection if the
accused is acquitted in this case.

7. PW2 Smti Ajanta Basumatary stated that she is the
complainant. Victim is her Daughter. She knows the accused. The incident
took place about one year back. Her daughter had developed friendship with
the accused and she used to meet the accused. She also went to go out on
vehicle with the accused and came home late. ON being asked she told that
the accused had physically abused her. SO, she filed complaint before police.
But, later on her daughter told them that she had voluntarily gone with the
and the accused did not do any harm to her. So, they are not willing to
proceed against the accused. Ext.1 is the ejahar and Ext.1(1) is her signature
therein.

In her cross-examination PW2 stated that they are now
maintaining cordial relation with the accused. She stated that she has no
objection if the accused is acquitted in this case.

8. PW3 Sinat Basumatary stated that complainant is his wife.
Victim is his Daughter. He knows the accused. The incident took place about
one year back. His daughter had developed friendship with the accused and
she used to meet him (accused). She also went to go out on vehicle with the
accused. On the date of occurrence she (victim) went to Demow with the
accused and came home late. On being asked she told that the accused had
physically abused her. SO, his wife filed complaint before police. But, later on
his daughter told them that she had voluntarily gone with the accused and he
did not do any harm to her. So, they are not willing to proceed against the

accused.

In his cross-examination PW3 stated that they are now
maintaining cordial relation with the accused. He has no objection if the

accused is acquitted in this case.

9. PW4 Danswarang Basumatary stated that the complainant is
his mother. Victim is his sister. He knows the accused. The incident took
place about one year back. His sister had developed friendship with the
accused and she used to meet him. She also used to go out on vehicle with
the accused. On the date of occurrence she went to Demow with the accused
and came home late. On being asked she told that the accused had
physically abused her. So, his mother filed complaint before police. But, later
on his sister told them that she had voluntarily gone with the accused and he
did not do any harm to her. So, they are not willing to proceed against the
accused.

In her cross-examination PW4 stated that they are now
maintaining cordial relation with the accused. He has no objection if the

accused is acquitted in this case.

Appreciation of evidence :

10. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that
in this case the victim-Smti ‘xX’, her mother- Ajanta Basumatary
(complainant), her father- Sinat Basumatary and her brother- Danswarang
Basumatary were examined as P.W-1, PW2, PW3 and PW4 respectively. In
their evidence all these vital witnesses stated that the victim girl had
developed friendship with the accused and she used to meet him (accused).
She (victim) also usedt to go out in the vehicle of the accused. On the date of
occurrence she (victim) went to Demow with the accused and came home
late. On being asked she told that the accused had physically abused her.
So, mother of the victim, PW2 filed complaint before police. But, later on the
victim (PW1) told them (PWs-2,3 and 4) that she had voluntarily gone with
the accused and he (accused) did not do any harm to her. So, they are not
willing to proceed against the accused. In cross-examination also, all the PWs
have stated that they are now maintaining cordial relation with the accused.
Further, all the P.Ws. have stated that they have no objection if the accused
is acquitted in this case. Prosecution side declined to examine the remaining
witnesses on the ground that examination of other witnesses will not improve
the prosecution case at all.

11. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is
no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the
alleged offences. This is a case of no evidence. It is also seen from the
evidence of the PWs- 1 ,2 ,3 and 4 that both the parties have compromised
the case outside the Court and hence they have not deposed against the
accused. I find that the prosecution has totally failed to prove the charges
u/s 313/376 of IPC read with Sec.- 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused.

12; In view of the above, I find the accused-Chansumai
Basumatary is not guilty u/s 313/376 of the I.P.C. read with Section-4 of
POCSO Act. Accordingly, he is acquitted of the charges leveled against him.

i3. Set him at liberty forthwith.

14. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.

iS. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 30"
day of November/ 2018.

=e"

SBracial Jucdge,
ByeAia ji.
