SplI.(POCSO) Case No.39/19

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE #: tii: CACHAR.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.39 of 2019
(U/S 366 IPC and Sec.6 of POCSO Act)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......ccccceseeeccceecssstessseeeessseeeees Complainant.
-Versus-

BIUNTUC SENT ecccncameanmecmes xexxexxexxexx 11a xx nnansanmanmamenmennneen Accused.

Charge framed On tm........cecececceeceesstseeeeeeesseeeeeessteeeeeneees 9.12.19.

P.WS. GXAMINE ON! -.......eeceeeececeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeenaeeenaes 18.2.2020.

Argument heard On! .....ccscceesssteeeeeeeeessenseeeeeeens 18.2.2020.

Judgment pronounced and delivered on:-............0. 18.2.2020.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : Mr. J.U. Laskar, Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant lodged an

FIR with the Udharbond PS. stating the facts that on 3/6/19 at about 4-30
p.m. the minor daughter of the informant ( name withheld ) was found
missing in the house and on search and inquiry the informant came to
know that the accused had abducted the victim daughter of the informant
on enticing and kept her concealed.

2. On receipt of the FIR, O/c Udharbond PS registered a regular
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.39/19

PS case vide Udharbond P.S. Case No.128 of 19 U/S 366A of IPC . Police
started investigation and during the course of investigation the statement
of the victim girl was recorded U/S 164 CrP.C. The investigating officer
visited the place of occurrence and prepared a rough sketch map etc. and
subsequently after completion of investigation submitted charge sheet
against accused person U/S 366 of IPC r/w Sec.8 of POCSO Act.

3. As the offence is U/S 366 of IPC r/w Section 8 of POCSO Act
being exclusively triable by the Court of Special court , Id. JMFC, Cachar,
Silchar sent the case record to this court and the case was taken up for
trial by this court and subsequently in due course after hearing both sides
formal charge U/S 366 IPC and Section 6 of POCSO Act was framed by this
court against the accused person. The charge having been read over and
explained, the accused person pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
4. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(1) Whether the accused person on 3/6/19 at about 4-30 p.m.
at Kumbhirgram T.E. under Udharbond PS_ had kidnapped the victim, the
daughter of the informant with intent that she may be compelled to marry
against her will or knowing it to be likely that she will be compelled to
marry against her will or in order that she will be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse, as alleged?

(2) Whether the accused person committed aggravated

penetrative sexual assault upon the victim, as alleged ?
5. Prosecution side examined as many as 2 witnesses i.e., the
victim and the informant. On the submission of the Id. Special P.P. the
evidence for the prosecution side is closed. As no incriminating materials
appears to be found against the accused during evidence the recording of
statement of the accused U/S 313 CrP.C. is dispensed with.

6. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.39/19

also heard the Id.counsel for both the parties.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF
Pe Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the accused

person as mentioned in points for determination.

8. PW. 1, the victim deposed in her evidence that the occurrence took
place about seven/eight months ago at about 8/9 PM from the date of her
deposition and at that time, she eloped with the accused Sumit Gonju out of
her own accord. She further deposed that they went to Moinagarh and
stayed there for about one week and thereafter she heard that her mother
lodged a case against the accused and therefore she along with the accused
appeared before Udharbond PS and the police arrested the accused and
took her to SMCH, Silchar but she refused to give consent for medical
examination. PW.1 was brought to the Court where her statement U/S 164
Cr.P.C. was recorded. Ext. 1 is the said statement. She added that thereafter
she again went to the house of the accused and presently she has been
staying with him as his wife. She further deposed that at the relevant time,

her age was 19 years.

In her cross examination she stated that after the release of the
accused from jail, her parents gave her in marriage with the accused socially
and she has been presently living peacefully with the accused and that she

has got no grievances against the accused.

9. PW. 2, Anmia Karmakar , who is the informant of this case, deposed
in her evidence that the occurrence took place about three months ago at
night and at that time, after dinner they did not find their daughter at home

and later on, they came to know that she was taken by the accused and
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.39/19

accordingly she lodged the FIR . She further deposed that at the time of
occurrence, the age of her daughter was 20 years. She also added that
police sent her daughter to SMCH, Silchar and also brought her to the Court
where her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded. She also deposed that
after release of the accused from jail, they gave our daughter in marriage
with the accused socially. She further deposed that presently her daughter is
living peacefully with the accused as his wife. Defence declined to cross
examine the PW.2.

10. So, from the evidence of prime witness i.e. the victim PW.1_ it
reveals that she did not at all implicate the accused in the alleged offence of
crime. PW.2, the informant, also deposed in her evidence as she did not find
the victim in the house and heard that accused had taken away the victim
she lodged this FIR, and that at the relevant time victim was 20 years of
age, and that subsequently victim was given marriage with the accused
socially. So, it is cropped up from the evidences in its entirety, that when the
victim was major out of love affairs, voluntarily went with the accused and
subsequently the informant side gave her marriage with the accused
socially and at present victim has been living with the accused as his wife
peacefully. That being the position , it appears that the victim was major at
the time of occurrence and for non implication of the accused person by the

victim herself in her evidence the accused deserves to be acquitted.

11. Upon consideration of all above the aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/s 366 of IPC and Sec. 6
of POCSO Act against accused.

12. In view of the above, accused person is not held guilty and
stands acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty
forthwith.
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.39/19

Bail bond stands discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on
this the 18th day of February, 2020.
Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.
Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee, Stenographer
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.39/19

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR
Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 39 of 2019.

APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW. 1 — Victim
PW. 2 — Anima Karmakar.

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL
(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — statement of victim
(D) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.
(E) COURT EXHIBITS: - _—NNIL.

(F) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: - NIL.

Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.
