IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE: CACHAR; SILCHAR
SPL. POCSO CASE NO ..01 of 2016
(U/S 366/376 IPC R.W. Sec. 4 of POCSO Act.)
Present:-Shri K. Choudhury, LL.M.,
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM ........cccccccseeccccsssceseseeeeessseeeeessssseeeeessseatees Complainant.
-Versus-
Md. Nazimuddin Laskar.

S/O Md. Altab Ali Laskar,
Rokorpar, P.S. Lakhipur.

DiSt CACNAN.........ccccccccseeeeeseeeseeeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeseeseeesseeenseeeseceeeeeeeeeeeeta Accused.
Charge framed ON tm........cccccsccccesssseeesesssseeeecsneeeeeeceeeseeesscseeeeessneenaa 26-02-16.
P.Ws. examined on: - ......... 03.05.16; 04.05.16; 26.05.16; 26.07.16;

30.08.16; 04-02-17; 17.05.17

Statement of accused recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C :- ..22.03.2017.
APQUIMERE AGAR OP! mn ccrsccens cra veewn ewe oman 5 ero enum x omanm 6 eae wean eae 30-08-17.

Judgment pronounced and delivered On: ...........ccseceeeeeeeees 11-09-17
Learned Counsel Appeared

For the State: ~.......ccccccccccceeeeeeeeeeeeeees Mr. R.M. Das, Ld. PP.

For the ACCUSEC: -.............cc0eeessseeeseeeeeees Mr. M.H. Mazumdar, Advocate.
JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case as it evolves from the record is that minor

daughter of the informant a student of class VII, herein below referred as
the victim, went to school but did not return. On search it could be learnt
that the victim was kidnapped by the accused Nazimuddin Laskar. Hence,
FIR was lodged after about 2 months showing the age of the victim as 14

years 8 months. The same was received and registered as Joypur PS.
case No. 25 of 14 dated 24-06-14, U/S 366 IPC.

2. During investigation, the victim was recovered. Her statement
was recorded U/S 164 CrP.C. She was also got medically examined.
Doctor opined her age as above 14 and below 16. According to her
statement, on 24 April 2014 while she came out from her school at about
12 noon appearing examination the accused called her. On her approach,
the accused got her into an auto rickshaw and pressing her mouth took
her to his maternal uncle’s house. Thereafter on 26.04.14, the accused
forcibly married her against her will and brought her to his house at
Binnakandi, Kaptanpur, where she had to stay for about 2 months as his
wife. It is further alleged that since after the marriage, the accused used

to have physical relation with her against her will.

3. On completion of investigation, 1.0. submitted charge sheet
against the accused U/S 366/344 R/W. Sec. 6 of POCSO Act. Learned
Judicial Magistrate 1% Class after furnishing copies of all necessary police
papers committed the case. After hearing both sides and considering the
materials on record, this Court framed formal charges against the
accused U/S 366/376 IPC, R/W. Sec. 4 of POCSO Act. The charges were
read over and explained to which the accused pleaded not guilty. Hence

trial began.

4. To prove the case prosecution examined as many as eight
witnesses including the M.O. and the I.0. Defence plea is of false
implication and also that the victim at her own will eloped away with the
accused and at the material time, she was major. Further defence plea is

that the victim was not recovered from the house of the accused. During
examination U/S 313 Cr.P.C. the accused took the plea of false implication
and also stated that the victim on one day visited the house of the
accused and proposed to marry him which he refused and drove her out.
After a few days, parents and maternal uncle of the victim came to his
house with a marriage proposal but his parents refused. After a few days,
police came to their house but did not get him. Subsequently he went to
the P.S. and was arrested. The victim was not recovered from his house.

However, in his defence, no evidence is adduced.

5. Now, under facts and circumstances of this case, whether the
victim was kidnapped by the accused and the accused committed rape or

penetrative sexual assault on her.

6. To decide the above points I have heard learned counsel of
both sides at length and perused the evidence on record.

Findings, decision and reasons thereof are given below:

¥: P.W.1, Saleha Begum Laskar, the mother of the victim, deposed
that about 2 years back at one day the victim went to her school to
appear in examination, but did not return. After that her brother Ali
Haidor over telephone informed her asking not to make any search of the
victim as the victim was taken away by the accused. They made search
but could not find the victim. After about two months she along with the
police and one of her nephew went to the house of the accused at
Rokorpar and recovered the victim. At the material time, age of the victim
was 14 years, 8 months. The victim reported her that, on the date of the

occurrence the accused forcibly took her by an auto.
8. P.W. 2 — the victim of this case deposed that, in the month of
April 2014 while she was coming out after appearing in her Class VII
examination, on the way the accused forcibly took her inside an auto
gagging her mouth and took her to Ramnagar ( Lakhipur) to his maternal
uncle’s house and there his maternal uncle forcibly gave her marriage
with the accused against her will. Thereafter, the accused took her to his
house at Rokorpar under Lakhipur P.S. where she stayed with the accused
as his wife for about two months and had physical relation with her.
During that period she somehow managed to inform her maternal uncle
namely Ali Haidor over telephone requesting him to take her back.
Thereafter, her mother (PW-1) and her brother Jamil Anmed went there
with police and recovered her. Exhibit-2 is her statement made before the

Magistrate. She disclosed her the then age as 14 years 8 months.

9. PW. 3 — Haidor Ali Mazumder @ Ali Haidor, maternal uncle of
the victim, deposed that at the time of the alleged occurrence the victim
was reading in class VII. On the date of the alleged occurrence she went
out to appear in her school examination, but did not return. On that
afternoon at about 4 p.m. the accused informed him over telephone that
they need not search the victim as he took away the victim. It is further
deposed that receiving such information he informed her sister (PW-1)
and made search of the victim, but of no result. Two months after that
his nephew namely Lalon informed him that the victim was in the house
of the accused at Rokorpar. Thereafter, mother of the victim (PW-1)
lodged the FIR. Accordingly, his sister (PW-1) and her son Lalon and
others went with the police to the house of the accused and recovered
the victim. The victim (PW-2) told him that on the way to her house from

school, the accused forcibly took her by an auto.
10. PW- 4, Md. Islam Uddin Laskar, father of the victim deposed
that at the material time, his victim daughter a student of class VII, aged
about 14 years went out for school, but did not return and during search
his brother in law, Ali Haidor (PW-3) informed him that he (PW-3) had
received information from the accused that the victim was taken away by
the accused and they need not search her. About after one and half
month, they received information that the victim was residing with the
accused in his house at Rokorpar. Subsequently, they recovered the victim
with help of police accompanied by his wife and said Lalon @ Jomir. The
victim reported that while she was coming out from the school, the

accused forcibly took her to different places.

11. PW-5, Dr. Priyanka Sinha, MO & HO of F & SM at SMCH,
deposed that she examined the victim on 25.06.2014 at SMCH and the
victim narrated history to the effect that about two and half months prior
to the examination, she eloped with Najim Uddin Laskar and both of them
got married and since then they were staying together in the house of
the accused and had sexual intercourse many times. Her parents were
against the marriage. The victim disclosed her age as 14 years and 8

months. Doctor opined her age as above 14 years and below 16 years.

12. PW-7 Dilwar Hussain Barbhuiya deposed that at the
material time the victim did not return from her school which he could
know from his maternal uncle Ali Haidar (PW-3) who also informed that
he (PW-3) received telephonic information from accused Nazimuddin that
he (accused) took the victim and requested that not to make any search

of the victim and asked him (PW-3) not to inform police otherwise the
victim would be lost. However, during search after two months they found
the victim in the house of the accused at Rokorpar under Lakhipur P.S.
Thereafter, they with the help of police recovered the victim from the
house of the accused. After the recovery, the victim reported them that
the accused on the way back from her school took her by a vehicle

showing threat.

13. PW-8 Moklisur Rahman deposed that on 24.6.2014, OC of
Jaipur Police Station receiving FIR, the Exhibit-3, registered the same and
entrusted him (PW-8) to investigate the case. During investigation,
he recovered the victim girl along with accused Nazimuddin from
Kaptanpur from the house of the accused on 25.6.2014 at late night.
Thereafter the victim was got examined by the doctor. He also collected
school certificate of the victim from her school. Exhibit-10 is the attested

Xerox copy of the school certificate.

14. PW-6, Tribhubhan Saikia deposed that on 24.06.2014 he was
posted as O.C. of Joypur P.S. On that day, he received the FIR from
Saleha Begum and registered the same as Joypur P.S. Case No. 25/14
U/S 366(A) IPC and endorsed the same to A.S.I. Moklisur Rahman for
investigation who after investigation handed over the C.D. to him (P.W.-6)
on 07.07.2014. According to him, it revealed in the C.D. that during
investigation said Moklisur Rahman .i.e. PW-8 recorded the statement of
the witnesses and recovered the victim girl from the house of the
accused. It is also deposed that during his tenure (P.W-6), he gave
requisition for age proof document to the Horinagar Public L.P School.
Headmaster of the school forwarded him the certificate of the victim.

Headmaster on receipt of the requisition acknowledged the same and in
reply enclosed the transfer certificate of the victim, the Exhibit-5 showing
the date of birth of the victim as 14.10.2001. The same is an attested
copy. He filed a petition to the Learned C.J.M for adding Section 4 of
POCSO Act.

15. In the cross examination of PW-8, the following omissions
are confirmed:

(a) PW-1 did not state before the IO that in the
afternoon, her brother Haidor told her that the victim was taken by the
accused and asked her not to make any search and that P.W-1 along
with her nephew Lalon went with the police in the house of the accused
in search of the victim and recovered the victim and that the victim
reported her (PW-1) that victim was forcibly taken by the accused lifting
in an auto.

(b) PW-2 did not state before the I.0. about
forceful taking away and about gagging of her mouth and that uncle of
the accused forcibly gave her marriage with the accused and that she
managed to inform her maternal uncle over telephone.

(C) PW-3 did not state before the IO that accused
on the date of the alleged occurrence in the afternoon asked the P.W-3
over telephone not to search the victim as the victim was taken away by
him (accused) and that PW-3 informed the PW-1 over telephone about
the same and about that PW-1 along with her nephew Lalon went with
the police to the house of the accused and recovered the victim and
that the victim reported that the accused took her away forcibly by an
auto.

(d) PW-4 did not state before the IO that his

brother-in-law PW-3 reported that PW-3 received information from the
accused that the victim was taken away by the accused and they need
not search for the victim and that police being accompanied by PW-1
and her nephew Lalon recovered the victim who reported that accused
took her forcibly while she was coming from school.

(e) PW-7 did not state before the I.O. that on the
date of occurrence, his maternal uncle Ali Haidor was informed by the
accused over telephone that accused took the victim and not to make
search and not to make any information to the police otherwise the
victim would be lost, and that after two months, they found the victim
in the house of the accused and about recovery by police and about

report of the victim about forceful taking away.

16. During argument, learned P.P. has submitted that
sometimes the defence took the plea of total denial and sometimes the
defence took the plea that the victim at her own will eloped away with
the accused. further it is submitted that the prosecution by way of
corroborative and cogent evidence could establish that the victim was
taken away by the accused forcibly and at the material time, she being
a student of class VII was minor and there is no reason to disbelieve
their testimony supported by the evidence of the I.O. with regard to the
recovery. On the contrary, learned defence counsel submitted that the
prosecution case is open to doubt and no suitable explanation has been
given by the informant about the two months delay in lodging of the
FIR and this delay is fatal for the prosecution. Further submission is that
testimony of material witnesses are full of infirmities and contradiction
to impeach their credibility. Learned defence counsel also strongly
contended that the age of the victim could not be ascertained properly

by the doctor. In support of the submissions, the learned defence
counsel on 08.09.2017, submitted one memorandum of written
argument vide petition no. 531/32. Perused the same. The learned
defence counsel categorically mentioned the omission as confirmed by
the I.0. The learned defence counsel also placed argument under
different heads such as determination of the age of the victim, recovery
of the victim, nature of investigation, lodging of FIR. According to the
learned defence counsel, the prosecution could not conclusively prove
that at the material time, the victim was a minor on the ground that her
parents could not tell about the specific date of birth of the victim. It is
also contended that as per the admission of the PW-5, the doctor, for
age determination x-ray of bones is necessary and the doctor had no
specialization in Radiology and according to the doctor, the radiological
report was given by Aditi Das. PW-5 also in the cross examination
stated that the finding of Dr. Aditi Das and the chart of Modi’s
jurisprudence, suggest that the age of the victim is more than 16. The
doctor also mentioned that they follow the medical jurisprudence of Dr.
Modi and when it is said that proximal epiphysis of humorous bone are
fused with parent bone it means that the coracoids and the angle of
coracoids are fused with proximal end of humorous. The doctor has also
stated that as per page 32 of the book of Modi’s Jurisprudence of 20"
Edition, 3 impression, it is mentioned that coracoid tip and angle of
coracoids fused at the age of 16 for Bengali females and the same is
also mentioned in page no. 214 of 24" Edition 2012. Therefore, the
learned defence counsel contended that at the material time the victim
was above 18 years.

Now, it is seen that the doctor in her cross examination asserted
that her findings differ with the above as she arrived at also on her own

findings. She further stated that as there was a confusion regarding
-10-

determination of pregnancy she did not go for x-ray of iliac crest as it
would create troubles in the pregnancy and her report is based wrist
joint. She denied the suggestion that the age of the victim was more
than 18 years after taking into consideration the marginal error of 2
years under different counts. She has further denied the suggestion that
their determination of age being above 14 and below 16 years is not
correct and her findings were based on assumption. She has stated that
her report was concurred and endorsed by the head of the department.
PW-1, mother of the victim deposed that at the material time, the victim
was aged about 14 years, 8 months, PW-4 the father of the victim
deposed that at the material time, the victim was aged around 14 years.
The victim (PW-2) in her statement deposed that she was aged about
14 years 8 months. It is not denied that at the material time, the victim
was a student of class VII. Nothing has come out to show that the
victim had to be detained in any class. Generally, a student appears in
H.S.L.C. or class X examination at the age of 15 plus. This goes to show
that at the material time, the victim being a student of class VII was
below 18 years. Doctor also asserted her age as below 16. It is true
that doctor's finding regarding age is not a conclusive proof of age but
mere an opinion. In the instant case, all the major four joints were not
examined under X-ray. Major joint being iliac crest was not examined on
the ground that it might create problems in pregnancy. It appears from
the evidence of the doctor that the epiphysis of wrist joints were in the
last stage of fusing with parent bones. The defence assertion of Modi’s
Jurisprudence as discussed earlier and come out in the cross
examination of M.O. (PW-5) only with regard to the shoulder joint and
not being with regard to other major joints cannot be totally relied upon

in the absence of any other supporting probabilities and also being
-11-

denied by the doctor. Similarly, although the learned defence counsel
raised objection for accepting attested photocopy of the school
certificate but it cannot be totally ignored under the facts and
circumstances of the case mainly on the ground that it is deposed to
have been collected by the P.W.-8 from the concerned Headmaster of
the concerned school during investigation. Therefore, doctor’s evidence
supported by the above observations and evidence of the material
witnesses corroborated by the FIR regarding the age can be totally

relied upon.

17. All the witnesses were cross examined at length. In the
cross examination of PW-1, PW-2, PW-3 and PW-4, mere denial
suggestions were given. PW-7 in his cross examination denied the
Suggestion that the victim at her own will eloped away with the
accused.

Omissions as confirmed in the evidence of the PW-8, under the
facts and circumstances of this case, are considered as not material
omission mainly on the ground that such omissions do not affect
substance of the prosecution case that the victim was taken away by
the accused and was recovered from his house. The alleged recovery,
though denied by the accused, but evidence of I.0. is found to have
been corroborated by other material witnesses and found to be reliable.
That too, going away of the victim with the accused is also found to be
established by way of virtual admission while putting suggestion that
the victim at her own will eloped away with the accused as brought in
the cross examination of PW-7. As the victim is found to be below 18
years of age, it is immaterial whether she voluntarily went with the

accused or taken away forcibly. It is evident that victim was recovered
-12-

after about 2 months of the alleged incident. It is also evident that FIR
was lodged after two months of the alleged incident. Learned defence
counsel strongly contended that this delay is fatal for the prosecution, in
as much as, evidence discloses that at the material time during search
Ali Haidor, the PW-3, reported the parents of the victim that the accused
took away the victim and not to make any search. If that be so,
according to the learned defence counsel, why the informant the PW-1,
awaited for two months in lodging of the FIR and this piece of evidence
is also a material omission confirmed by the I.0. The PW-3 in his
evidence supported the above evidence of the PW-1 that he reported
the PW-1 over telephone that accused took away the victim and they
need not search the victim. It is thus seen that the parents of the victim
had the earlier opportunity to file ejahar against the accused which
they did not avail. It appears that they even after receipt of such
information, made search and only after receipt of cogent information,
that the accused kept the victim in his house at Rokorpar, the father of
the victim with others went there and after that mother of the victim
filed FIR. According to the victim, she was first taken to Ramnagar to
the house of maternal uncle of the accused and where she was given
marriage against her will and after that she was brought to Rokorpar.
Under such circumstances, lodging of FIR after getting proper
information regarding the exact whereabouts of the victim is not
considered as fatal under the facts and circumstances of this cases and
that too, in a case where the informant is an illiterate. Further, it
appears that the initiative was taken to get her back only on receipt of
telephonic request made by the victim to his maternal uncle, the PW-3,
to take her back from the house of the accused as disclosed in her

evidence. Under such circumstance, delay so caused in filing FIR is also
-13-

considered as not fatal.

18. In view of the above findings, discussions, observations,
deductions and consideration of evidence in its entirety, it is held that
prosecution has been able to prove its case beyond all reasonable doubt
U/S 366 I.P.C. and Section 4 of POCSO Act. Therefore, accused is held

to be guilty and convicted accordingly.

19. Heard the accused on the question of sentence. He has
stated that he has got aged ailing parents and three unmarried sisters
and there is none except him to look after them and for that he need to

be leniently dealt with.

20. Having consideration of the above and due regard to all
other aspects, and the relevant provision of law this Court is of the view
that minimum punishment may be imposed. The accused is thus
convicted and sentenced U/S 366 IPC to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment
(R.I.) for a period of two years, and also a fine of Rs. 3000/- and in
default he shall further undergo R.I. for a period of one month. The
accused is also convicted and sentenced U/s 4 of POCSO Act to undergo
R.I. for a period of seven years and also a fine of Rs. 10,000/- and in
default he shall further undergo for a period of three months. Period of
custody shall be set off from the sentence. Both the sentences will run
concurrently. Fine amount if realized shall be paid to the victim as

compensation.

21. In addition to the above condition this court is of the view

that the victim should be adequately compensated mainly on the ground
-14-

that, as per evidence out of fear the victim discontinued her study while
reading in class VII. Therefore consideration of all aspects an amount of
Rs. 50,000/- is required to be awarded as interim compensation prior to
any further enquiry. In case any prayer is made for payment of any
further compensation the Secretary DLSA shall make an enquiry for
assessment of any further compensation. The Secretary DLSA shall take

appropriate step for payment of interim compensation so awarded.

22. Free copy of the Judgment be furnished to the accused as
per the Provision of Section 363 of Cr.P.C. and a copy also be forwarded
to the District Magistrate as per section 365 of CrP.C. Copy of the
Judgment also may be forwarded to the S.P., Cachar, Silchar.

Bail bond stands discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court under

my signature and seal of this court on this 14th day of September, 2017.

Dictated & Corrected by me

(Shri K. Choudhury), (Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge. Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribe by D. Paul, Stenographer, Gr. III
-15-

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR.

SPL POCSO Case No. 01 of 2016.
APPENDIX

 

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

P.W. 1 — Saleha Begum Laskar.

P.W. 2 — Mirjana Begum Laskar.

P.W. 3 — Haider Ali Mazumdar @ Ali Haider.
P.W. 4 — Md. Islam Uddin Laskar.

P.W. 5 — Dr. Priyanka Sinha.

P.W. 6 — Tribhubhan Saikia. I.O.

P.W. 7 — Dilwar Hussain Barbhuiya.

P.W. 8 — Moklisur Rahman.

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL.
(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext.1 Medical Report.
Ext.1(1) Signature of P.W.2
Ex. 1(2) Signature of P.W.5.

Ex. 1(3)to 1(5)
Ext. 2
Ex. 2(1) & 2(2)

Signature of Dr. G. Das.
Statement of PW-2.
Signature of P.W.2

Ext.3 FIR.

Ext. 3(1) Signature of PW-6.

Ext. 4 Requisition

Ext.4(1) Signature of P.W.6

Ext.4(2) Acknowledgment of headmaster.

Ext.5 Reply of requisition by the headmaster(under objection)
Ext.5(1) Signature of headmaster (under objection).
Ext.6 Prayer before C.J.M. for adding Section 4 of POCSO Act.
Ex. 6(1) Signature of P.W.6.

Ext.7 Charge sheet.

Ext.7(1) Signature of P.W.6

Ext.8 Sketch map.

Ext.8(1) Signature of P.W.8.

Ext.9 House search memo.

Ext.9(1) Signature of P.W.8

Ext.10 Attested Xerox copy of school certificate (under objection).
Ext.10(1) Signature of school authority (under objection)
Ext.11 Copy of arrest memo.
-16-

Ext.11(1) — Signature of P.W.8.

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL
(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: - NIL.

(Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
-17-
