IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE, SI VASAGAR
Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS

Special J udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 10 of 2017 U/ S 6 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of Charaipung P.S. Case No. 26/2016)

State of Assam

-Vs-
Sri Ramu Gowalla ..............06. Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution ; Sri A. K. Bora, P. P.
For the accused Sri D. M. Neog, Advocate
(Legal Aid Counsel)

Date of framing Charge: 27.03.2017
Dates of Evidence 17.05.2017, 14.06.2017, 23.10.2017,

23.06.2017
Date of S/D 01.12.2017
Date of Argument 01.12.2017
Date of J udgment 11.12.2017

JUDGMENT

1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 03.10.2016, one Smt. Meera

Baghowar lodged an FIR with O/C, Charaipung Police Station alleging, inter alia,
that about two months back, accused Ramu, by enticing her daughter victim ‘J’

(named withheld) took her to jungle and committed rape on her.

2. On receipt of the FIR, Charaipung P.S. Case No. 26/2016 U/S 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and investigated into. During investigation,
accused was arrested and produced him before the court for judicial custody.

The victim was medically examined and recorded her statement in the court

Spl (P) Case No.10/2017 Page 1 of 9
U/S 164 Cr.P.C. On completion of investigation, 1.0. has submitted Charge-
Sheet U/S 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 against accused person.

3. On receipt of the charge sheet, accused was provided with the
services of Legal Aid Counsel, copy was furnished to him, and after hearing
both the sides, vide order dated 27.03.2017 framed the charge U/S 6 of POCSO
Act, 2012 against the accused Ramu Gowalla to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed to stand trial. During trial, prosecution side has examined eight

witnesses including M.O. and 1.0.

4, Upon completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Defence case is of total denial and false implication.
Accused declined to adduce evidence when he was called upon to enter into
defence.

5. | have heard argument of learned P.P. Mr. A.K. Bora and Mr. D. M.
Neog, learned Legal Aid Counsel and gone through the evidence on record. |

have considered the submission of both the sides.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -
6. (1) What was the age of the victim ']' on the date of alleged incident?

(11) | Whether prior to two months of filing FIR on 03.10.2016, accused

has committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the victim ‘J '?
DECI SION AND REASONS THEREOF

7. PW-1 Smt. Meera Baghowar, mother of the victim, in her evidence
deposed that on 03.10.2016, victim was aged about 12-13 years. She did not
go to school. On stopping her menstruation, on asking, she told that accused
Ram has took her to near new police station area and committed misdeed with
her. She told her that accused did the misdeed twice. After knowing this, after
about a week on being asked by mahila samity, she lodged the FIR at
Charaipung PS. In her cross-examination she deposed that she has three sons

and two daughter. Her elder son is about 20 years of age. Victim J is next to

Spl (P) Case No.10/2017 Page 2 of 9
him. Victim J worked in the Bagan of Naren Sherowar. On those days, she
come in touch with the accused Ramu. On asking initially, she did not disclose
the cause of her stoppage of menstruation. She has to filed the case on the
insistence of Mahila Samity. Victim J informed the matter of committing
misdeed initially to Mahla Samity Mamber Pramanti Hare and she informed her
about the misdeed. She cannot say the correct age of his daughter. She denied

that victim was aged above 18 years.

8. PW-2 victim ] in her evidence deposed that about 8-9 months
back, in one Saturday, while she came to nearby shop with her friends, accused
called her to go for visit and took her to Bagan Jungle area. After taking there,
accused opened her cloth, laid her on ground and committed rape on her. She
tried to restrain him but accused did not bother for that. After committing
misdeed he left the place. Accused also restrained her from informing the
matter to her family members. After about a week the accused again took her
to another place and committed misdeed with her. After 9 days, sister of
Nareswar asked her about her menstruation and she replied that sometime it
got delayed. She informed the matter to Mahila Samity. They asked her in front
of her parents. Only then she disclosed that accused has committed rape on
her. On this her mother has scolded her and filed this case. Police got her
medically examined. Police also took her to court and she gave statement in
court. In her cross-examination she admitted that she cannot say the name of
the friends gone with her to the shop. She and accused work in the Bagan of
Naren Shreowar for about a week. Her brother also works in the said Bagan.
Accused took her about % KM inside the Bagan. Neighbouring people has seen
her in going with the accused. She has stated her age as informed by Mahila
Samity members. On being pressed by Mahila Samity members, she had to
disclose the incident and name of the accused. She denied that that while
giving statement in court, she did not state that accused did not bother for her
resistance. He did not feel pain after the alleged misdeed. She denied that

accused did not commit rape on me. She also denied that on being scolded by

Spl (P) Case No.10/2017 Page 3 of 9
her parents, and on being pressurised by Mahila Samity members, she falsely
implicated the accused. She denied that she deposed falsely on being tutored

by Mahila Samity members.

9. PW-3 Smt. Prasanati Here in her evidence deposed that in the
month of October, 2016 mother of Victim, has informed her that menstruation
of her daughter Victim J] did not took place for last 2 months. On this she
informed the matter to Nitu Gogoi, Mahila Samity member who informed the
matter to Jonali Konwar. They assembled and on asking victim, she told them
that accused Ramu took her to some distance area and committed rape with
her. She also told them that accused did the misdeed twice and paid Rs. 100/-
each day. After knowing this, mahila samity members took her to Charaipung
Police Station where Meera Baghowa has lodged the FIR. At that time Victim
was aged about 14 years. In her cross-examination she deposed that she
Stated the age of Victim on assumption. She deposed basing on the facts

disclosed by victim.

10. PW-4 Smt. Nitu Gogoi, in her evidence deposed that in the month
of October, 2016 Pramanti Here informed her about stoppage of menstruation
of victim ] and knowing this, she informed the matter to J onali Konwar and Biju
Tipomia. Members of Mahila Samity assembled at the house of victim and on
asking, she told them that accused Ramu took her to some distance area on hill
side and committed rape with her. She also told them that accused did the
misdeed twice and paid Rs. 100/- each day. After knowing this, mahila samity
members took her mother to Charaipung Police Station where Meera Baghowa
has lodged the FIR. In her cross-examination she admitted that she have no
knowledge of age of victim. At the time of interrogating Victim, 30 to 40
members of Mahila Samity were present in her house. She denied that while
giving statement to police, she has not stated that Victim told them that

accused committed rape with victim twice and paid Rs. 100/- on each day.

Spl (P) Case No.10/2017 Page 4 of 9
11. PW-5 Sri Naren Sherowa in his evidence deposed that in the
month of October, 2016, Charaipung Police came to his Bagan in search of
accused. On searching, accused absconded. From villagers, he came to know

that Victim was pregnant.

12. PW-6 Sri Ramprasad Goala in her evidence deposed that he has
no knowledge about this case. Police came to their village in search of the

accused but he absconded.

13. PW 7 Dr. Pranjal Kumar Chutia in his evidence deposed that on 04.10.
2016, he examined victim i/c with Charaipung PS Case No. 26/2016 and found that her
age was above 15 years but below 18 years. Victim was not pregnant. He proved the
Medical Report as Exbt. 1. In his cross-examination victim did not disclose the

date of occurrence.

14. PW-8 SI Nandeswar Borgohain the I/O in his evidence deposed
that he has investigated the Charaipung PS case No. 26/16 u/s 4 of POCSO Act.
Exbt. 2 is the FIR of the case. During investigation he went to the place of
occurrence and drawn a sketch map of the PO. Exbt. 4 is the said sketch map.
After the occurrence, during search, accused was found absconding. During
investigation, on 29.01.2017, he apprehended the FIR named accused Sri Ramu
Goala from the residence of father in law and arrested him. He could not
collected the age proof certificate as the victim did not go to school. On
completion of investigation, he has submitted charge sheet against the accused
u/s 4 of POCSO Act. Exbt. 5 is the charge sheet. In his cross-examination
affirmed that in 164 Cr.P.C statement given in court, though the victim has
Stated about presence of her friends while taking her by the accused, he has
not investigated about the friends of the victim. Victim could not show the place
of occurrence. In 164 Cr.P.C statements given in court, the victim was silent
about resisting the accused while committing rape. As per FIR, the incident of
rape took place about 2 months back of filling the FIR. He has not collected any

other document regarding age of the victim.

Spl (P) Case No.10/2017 Page 5 of 9
15. From the above evidence on record, let me discuss the points
formulated. So far point No. | is concerned regarding age of the victim, from
the evidence of P.W. 1 it appears that on the date of occurrence her daughter
victim 'J' was aged about 12-13 years. P.W.1 denied the defence suggestion
that her daughter was aged above 18 years. In her cross she admitted that her
elder son is aged about 20 years and the victim is next to him. While adducing
evidence P.W. 2 the victim claimed her age as 14 years. In her cross
examination she stated that she has stated her age as informed by the Mahila
Samity members. P.W. 7, the M.O. in his evidence stated that on 04.10.2016 he
examined the victim 'J' and upon radiological examination he determined the
age of the victim between 15 to 18 years. P.W. 8, the 1.0. in his evidence
admitted that during investigation he has not collected any document relating
to age of the victim as she did not go to school. From the above materials on
record, | found force on the submission of learned Advocate for the accused
that as per ratio laid by Hon'ble Supreme Court of India in several cases, there
may be two years variation on the age as determined by the medical officer,
and in cases where no conclusive evidence is available, accused should get the
benefit on age, | am of the opinion that it will be safe to presume that on the

date of alleged occurrence the victim 'J' was above the age of 18 years.

16. Now coming to the Point No. II, from the evidence of victim as
narrated above, it appears that accused took her twice to the jungle area and
committed rape on her. As per the victim, on the first occasion, while she came
to nearby shop with her friends, accused called her to go for a visit and after
taking her in the jungle committed rape on her. After a week of this incident
again accused took her to another place and committed rape on her. From this
fact, it appears that though on the first occasion accused took her and
committed rape, on the second time without any hesitation she went with the
accused to the J ungle area. | found force in the submission of learned Advocate
for the accused that the conduct of the victim itself shows that she went with

the accused on her own being a consenting party.

Spl (P) Case No.10/2017 Page 6 of 9
17. From the other part of the evidence of the victim, it appears that
after nine days of the second incident, the sister of Nareswar asked her about
her menstruation period and knowing about stopping her menstruation she
informed the matter to Mahila Samity members. From the evidence of P.W.3
Smt. Prasanti Here and P.W.4 Smt. Nitu Gogoi it appears that on knowing about
the fact of stopping of menstruation period they came to the residence of the
victim and in presence of her parents asked her on which she disclosed that
about two months back accused Ramu took her to Jungle and committed rape
on her. P.W.3 and P.W.4 added a new fact that after committing misdeed with
victim 'J' accused paid Rs.100/- to the victim on each occasion. Though victim
was silent on receiving Rs. 100/- on each occasion but it shows that she was a
consenting party in going with the accused in jungle and establishing physical

relation with him.

18. From the evidence of P.W.1 to P.W.4 it is apparent that the FIR
was lodged at the instance of P.W.3 and P.W.4, the members of the Mahila
Samity. None of the P.W.1, P.W.3 and P.W.4 have ever seen the victim with
the accused. Prosecution did not examine the friends of the victim with whom

she went to the nearby shop just before the first day of occurrence.

19. P.W.5 Sri Naren Sherowa though stated about pregnancy of the
victim, but the M.O. (P.W.7) did not find any such symptom of pregnancy. Thus
a question arose if at all the menstruation period stopped for two months,
normally the M.O. should have found signs of pregnancy. In this case the entire
episode starts on the knowledge of stopping of menstruation of the victim and

non-finding of symptom of pregnancy casts a serious doubt.

20. Apart from above, the difference of probable time of occurrence
also casts a serious doubt on the credibility of the evidence of the victim. As per
the victim (P.W.2) she informed the matter after nine days of the second
occurrence, but as per the P.W.1, P.W.3 and P.W.4, the matter was brought to

their notice after two months of the occurrence. Apart from all above,

Spl (P) Case No.10/2017 Page 7 of 9
prosecution has not produced any witness to show that any of the villagers has

seen the accused in going with the victim towards the jungle.

21. So considering the inherent contradictions, i.e. difference of
probable time of occurrence in the evidence of the witnesses, taking of Rs.100/-
by the victim as deposed by P.W.3 and P.W.4, and the medical evidence of
non-finding any sign of pregnancy leads me to hold that the allegations of rape
as leveled against the accused are not beyond doubt. As such, accused is
entitled for the benefit of doubt.

22. Considering all above, | am of the opinion that prosecution has
totally failed to prove the ingredients of offence U/S 6 of POCSO Act against the
accused beyond all reasonable doubt. As such, accused Ramu Gowalla is
acquitted from the charge U/S 6 of POCSO Act, 2012 and set at liberty forthwith.

23. Issue release order to the Jail Supdt. of District Jail, Sivasagar
accordingly.

24. As the accused was in Jail custody, no order is passed U/S 437 A
Cr.P.C.

25. Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, the matter is

not referred to DLSA for granting compensation U/S 357 A Cr.P.C.

26. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

27. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on

contest.

Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 11" day of

December 2017 at Sivasagar.

Special | udge,

Spl (P) Case No.10/2017 Page 8 of 9
APPENDIX

1. Prosecution witnesses -

P.W.1- Smt. Meera Baghowar (Informant)
P.W.2- (Victim)
P.W.3- Smt. Prasanti Here
P.W.4- Smt. Nitu Gogoi
P.W.5- Sri Naren Sherowa
P.W.6- Sri Ram Prasad Gowalla
P.W.7- Dr. Pranjal Kumar Chetia (M.O.)
P.W.8- Sl Nandeswar Borgohain (1.0.)
2. Defence witnesses : None
3. Court witnesses ; None

4.

Exhibits by prosecution -

Exbt.1 -
Exbt.2 -
Exbt.3 -
Exbt.4 -
Exbt.5 -

Medical report.

FIR

State of the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Sketch map

Charge-Sheet

Special | udge,

Spl (P) Case No.10/2017 Page 9 of 9
