1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.

Special P.O.C.S.O. Act CASE NO. 11 OF 2017

Under Section 4 of P.O.C.S.0O. Act,2012

Present:- Smti. C. R. Goswami, A.J.S.,
Special Judge, Barpeta

State of Assam.

-versus-
1. Sukur Ali,
2. Jahidul Islam
beeeues Accused.
APPEARANCE
For the Prosecution : Sri Lalit Ch. Nath, learned P.P.
For the accused : Anowar Hussain, learned Advocate.
Evidence recorded on : 10.05.2018,12.06.2018,
Argument heard on : 12.06.2018,
Judgment delivered on : 12.06.2018.

} U D G M E N T

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 06.02.2016 one Fajar
Ali lodged an FIR with the O/C of Tarabari Police Station, alleging interalia
that he is running a tea-stall on the bank of the river. On 30.01.2016 at
2

about 6:30 PM his minor daughter, the victim, was returning home from
his tea-stall. On her way to home, the accused persons Sukur Ali, Jahidul
Islam and another( name not known) gagged her mouth with a gamocha,
dragged her to a paddy field, committed rape on her and left her in
unconscious state. Returning home from the shop, he did not find the
victim at home and then, on search, the victim was found in unconscious
state in naked condition. The victim was taken home and while she
regained sense, she reported the matter to him. The village headman
assured that they would settle the matter, but they failed to settle the
matter as the accused persons did not appear.

2. On the basis of the F.I.R. police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation submitted charge
sheet against accused persons Sukur Ali & Jahidul Islam under section 457
IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO Act.

3. The accused persons appeared before this court, copies were
furnished to them and after hearing both the parties charge was framed
against accused persons Sukur Ali & Jahidul Islam under section 4 of
POCSO Act. Charge was read over and clearly explained to the accused
persons to which they pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.

4. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined only
3(three) witnesses including the medical officer and the victim.
Examination of the accused persons under section 313 Cr.P.C. is dispensed

with as no incriminating materials found against them.

5. Point for determination:-

Whether on 30-01-2016 at about 6:30 PM at village Roumari
Gaon within the jurisdiction of Tarabari PS, District Barpeta, committed
penetrative sexual assault on Ramela Parbin, aged about 14 years, who is
the daughter of the informant Fazar Ali. ?
3

Discussion, decision and reasons thereof

 

6. According to the FIR, the alleged occurred took place on
30.01.2016 at around 6:30 PM. The FIR was lodged on 06.02.2016 and the
victim was examined by the Medical Officer On 08.02.2016. The Medical
Officer as PW1 has opined that-----“(1) There is no recent sign of
sexual intercourse. (2) There is no violence mark on her private parts.
(3) According to X-ray report her age is above Twelve(12) years & below
fourteen(14) years at present.”

8. The informant Fajar Ali as PW2 has deposed that the victim
is his daughter. At the time of occurrence the age of the victim was above
18 years. On the date of occurrence at evening time, the victim had gone
to the bank of the river to bring their goat. At that time the accused
persons were present on the bank of the river. The victim returned home
weeping. On being asked, the victim reported him that the accused
persons made a quarrel with her. He was not willing to lodge any FIR for
that quarrel. But at the instigation of village people, he had to lodge the
FIR. Police came and took the victim. The victim was examined by the
Medical Officer and her statement was recorded by the magistrate. After
15 days of the occurrence, accused Sukur married the victim. Out of their
wedlock a female child is born.

In cross examination, he has stated that accused Sukur Ali
and the victim loved each other. Accused Jahidul was a friend of Sukur. To
compel accused Sukur to marry the victim, as per advice of the village
people, he lodged the FIR. The FIR was written by one advocate. But he
does not know what was written in the FIR as the same was not read over
to him. The FIR was lodged after 3/4 days of the occurrence.

9. Ramela Parbin, the victim as PW4 has mentioned her age
as 21 years at the time of deposition. She has stated that accused Sukur
Ali is her husband. About 2 years ago one evening, she had gone to the
shop. In the shop an altercation took place in between her and the
4

accused persons regarding some family matters. She returned home
weeping and informed the matter to her father. Then her father as per
advice of the village people lodged the FIR. She was examined by the
Medical Officer and her statement was recorded by the magistrate. After
some days accused Sukur Ali married her and she is now the mother of a
6 months old baby,

In her cross examination, she has stated that she made
the statement before the magistrate as tutored by the villagers. It was
told to her that if she failed to make such statement, no case would be
instituted and would not be married by accused Sukur. In fact, no such
occurrence took place as narrated in the FIR and in her statement
recorded u/s 164 CrPC.

10. From the above discussions of the evidences of the
prosecution witnesses, it is found that except the informant, none of the
prosecution witnesses, even the victim, has made a single whisper
regarding the commission of the rape by the accused persons on the
victim. They have categorically stated that a quarrel took place in
between the accused and victim and then as per instruction of the
villager, the FIR was lodged by the father of the victim. After about 15
days of lodging the FIR accused Sukur Ali married the victim. The medical
evidence is also quite negative to the prosecution case. Under such
circumstances, the ocular evidence is also quite silent regarding
commission rape by the accused persons on the victim.

11. Under the above facts and circumstances, it is clear that both
medical and ocular evidences are quite negative regarding commission of
rape on the victim by the accused persons. The evidence of the
prosecution witnesses makes it clear that prosecution has failed to bring
home the guilt of the accused persons for any offence. Therefore the
accused persons are acquitted and set at liberty.

12. Bail bond executed by the accused persons and the surety
are extended for another period of 6(six) months from the date of this
judgment under section 437-A Cr.P.C.

13. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section 365
Cr.P.C.

14. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 12th day
of June, 2018.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-

(Smti. C. R. Goswami) (Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta.
APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 = Medical Officer Dr. Anima Boro,
P.W.2 = Fazar Ali, the informant,
P.W.3 = Ramela Parbin, the victim,

(B) Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1 = Medical report,

Ext.1(1) = Signature of the M.O.,

Ext.1(2) = Signature Dr. S.K. Bhuyan,

Ext.2 = Statement of the victim u/s 164 CrPC,
Ex.2(1)&2(2) = Signatures of the victim.

(C) Defence witnesses:Nil.
(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.
(E) Court witnesses:Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil.

Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
