CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 7/16

Informant: Sri Debaru Kishan,
S/o- Sri Prem Kishan,
R/o- Napather Gaon,
PS- Tingkhong,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Nilip Baruah,
S/o- Sri Biren Baruah,
R/o- Napather Gaon,
PS- Tingkhong,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Sri Uttam Routh, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH
Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 7/16
G.R. Case No. 3175/15

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Nilip Baruah

Charges: Under Section 4 of POCSO Act, read with Section 376 IPC.

Date of evidence on : 07-06-16, 08-09-16, 18-11-16, 31-05-17, 11-05-18 and
19-06-18

Date of argument : 13-07-18.

Date of Judgment — : 28-09-18.

JUDGMENT

1) The prosecution case in a narrow compass is that on 07-11-15, at about 3:30
pm, the sixteen year old victim 'X' was forcefully taken into Sri Nilip Baruah’s
house and thereafter, Sri Nilip Baruah (hereinafter the accused) committed
rape on the victim X. When she raised alarm, Sri Lakhinath Kishan and Sri
Kolia Kishan who were proceeding through the road near the accused
person's house, heard her cries and rescued the victim. An ejahar regarding
this incident was lodged by the victim’s elder brother Sri Debaru Kishan
(hereinafter the informant). A Borbam Outpost GD Entry No. 137 dtd.
08-11-15 was registered and the FIR was forwarded to Tingkhong Police
Station which was registered as Tingkhong PS Case No. 130/15 under Section
376 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC for short), read with Section 4 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act for short)
and SI Cheniram Pagag was endorsed with the investigation.

2) The investigating officer (IO for short) embarked upon the investigation. He
3)

4)

5)

6)

recorded the statement of the victim and forwarded her to the Magistrate
who recorded her statement. He went to the place of occurrence and
prepared the Sketch-Map and seized one sweater. He also recorded the
statements of the witnesses. On finding prima facie materials, he submitted
Charge-Sheet against the accused.
On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and after hearing both
the sides, a formal charge under Section 376 IPC, read with Section 4 of the
POCSO Act was framed and read over and explained to the accused. The
accused abjured his guilt and claimed innocence.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of ten
witnesses including the medical officer (IO for short) and the defence cross-
examined all the witnesses to refute the charges.
SUBMISSIONS:

The learned Public Prosecutor Smti. Runumi Devi and the learned Addl. Public
Prosecutor Mrs. Sahnaz Akhtar emphasized through their arguments that this
is an open and shut case. The victim was rescued from the accused person’s
clutches. The accused deserves stringent punishment. The learned defence
counsel laid stress in his argument that the victim was silent at the time of
her physical relationship. She did not seek any help. No injuries were
detected on physical examination by the doctor. The accused deserves a
benefit of doubt. The old tear which was detected by the doctor goes beyond
the time of the alleged incident.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:
On the backdrop of the rival contentions, the following points are apposite for
proper adjudication of this case:

i. Whether on 07-11-15, at Napather Gaon, the accused
7)

8)

9)

committed rape on the victim 'X'?

ii. Whether at the same time and place, the accused
committed penetrative sexual assault on the minor
victim 'X'?

DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

To decide the case in its right perspective, it is necessary to delve into the
evidence.
Sri Debaru Kishan testified as PW-1 that the victim 'X' is his younger sister

who is about 15 years of age. The incident occurred about four months ago
(from 07-06-16). On the day of the occurrence, his sister was plucking tea
leaves in the accused person's tea garden. Then the accused gagged his
sister by her mouth and dragged her inside his house and committed rape on
her. When she raised alarm, the neighbouring people heard her screaming
and his sister fled away from the accused person’s house towards her house.
When he returned home, his sister informed him about the incident. The
neighbouring people caught the accused and brought him to the police
station. He along with his sister 'X' and Sri Monsai Kishan also went to the
police station. He lodged the ejahar with the police in connection with this
case.

In his cross-examination, he testified that he is an illiterate and he did not
know what was written in the FIR. He denied that he omitted to state before
the police that on the day of the incident, his sister was plucking tea leaves in
the accused person's tea garden. Then the accused gagged his sister by her
mouth and dragged her inside and committed rape on her and while she
raised alarm, the neighbouring people heard her screams and hir sister fled

away from the accused person’s house towards her house and when he came
to his house, his sister informed him about the incident.

10) This statement of PW-1 remained uncontradicted by the IO SI Cheniram
Pagag who testified as PW-9. The IO has affirmed a part of the statement of
Sri Debaru Kishan that he did not state under Section 161 CrPC that when his
sister raised alarm, the neighbours heard her screams. The remaining part of
the cross-examination and the evidence of Sri Debaru Kishan as PW-1
remained uncontradicted and uncontroverted.

11) The accused person’s father Sri Biren Baruah testified as PW-2 that the victim
is known to him. The incident occurred on 08-11-15. At that time, he was in
his own house. His son Sri Nilip Baruah’s house is situated in the same area
in a separate enclosure. He is the VDP Secretary of Napather Gaon. In the
morning of the day of the incident, several people came to his residence and
informed him that his son misbehaved with the victim while she was plucking
tea leaves in the tea garden of his son on the previous day. He asked the
villagers to maintain order and assured that he will inform the police and
accordingly, he informed the police about the incident. The evidence of PW-1
is supported by the evidence of PW-2. The accused person's father heard
about the incident and being the Gaonburah, he informed the police.

12) The evidence of PW-1 is corroborated by the evidence of Sri Kolia Kishan who
testified as PW-3 that the victim is his elder brother’s daughter. The incident
occurred about eight months ago (from 08-09-16). On the day of the
incident, at about 3:00 pm, he along with Sri Lakhinath Kishan were returning
to their house from work. At that time, he heard his sister crying for help.
Then they arrived near the accused person’s house and noticed that 'X' was
running out of the accused person’s house. She was unclothed and unclad.

Then they went to the victim’s house and informed her brother about the
incident. The villagers were also informed. On the next morning, the villagers
caught the accused and handed him over to the Borbam Outpost.

13)The evidence of this witness remained uncontradicted on the cross-
examination of this witness and also on the cross-examination of the IO.

14) The evidence of PWs-1 and 3 is also corroborated by the evidence of Sri
Lakhinath Kishan who testified as PW-4 that the victim 'X' is his distant
relative. The incident took place about three months ago. On the day of the
incident, at about 3:00 pm, he along with Sri Kolia Kishan were proceeding to
their house. When they reached the gate of the accused person's house,
they noticed that the victim 'X' was running out from the accused person’s
house and she was unclad and she was crying and stating that she was raped
by the accused person. Then they asked the victim to go to their house and
they went to their house. They informed the matter to the villagers. The
villagers caught the accused and took him to Borbam Outpost.

15) The evidence of PWs-3 and 4 clearly depicts that while they were returning
home, they noticed the victim escaping in unclad condition from the accused
person's house. The victim also informed PW-4 that the accused committed
rape on her. This witness was cross-examined regarding his omission to make
certain statement under Section 161 CrPC, but his evidence-in-chief remained
uncontradicted and uncontroverted. However, it is taken note of that his
friend who was also with him, did not testify that 'X' stated that the accused
raped her. Both were returning home at the same time and both PWs-3 and 4
met the unclad victim 'X' while running out of the accused person’s house,
but PW-3 did not state that the victim informed him that the accused raped
him.

16)I have carefully perused the cross-examination of PW-4. It is held that the
evidence of PW-4 remained uncontradicted on the cross-examination of the
IO.

17) PWs-1, 3 and 4's evidence is also corroborated by the evidence of PW-5 Smti.
Monika Baruah. She testified that the accused is his younger brother-in-law.
The incident took place about eight months ago. The victim is known to her.
On the day of the occurrence, the victim was plucking tea leaves in their
garden, owned by her father-in-law Sri Biren Baruah. On the next morning,
she learnt that the victim 'X' was sexually assaulted by the accused on the
previous day. The accused was taken by the villagers to the Borbam Outpost.

18) In her cross-examination, she testified that the accused resides with his wife
and two children in his house and there are two houses adjacent to the
accused person's house.

19) It is pertinent to mention at this juncture that if the accused person’s family
resides with him, when and how the accused committed rape on the victim.
If the victim raised alarm, then why the two neighbours did not rescue the
victim 'X'.

20) The evidence of PWs-1, 2, 3, 4 and 5 is supported by the evidence of Sri
Monsai Kishan who testified as PW-7 that the victim and the accused are
known to him. The incident took place about a year ago. On the following
morning of the incident, Sri Kolia Kishan went to his house and informed him
that the accused committed rape on the victim. Then he went to the accused
person’s house and found several people gathered near his house. After a
while, the police arrived and took the accused to the Borbam Outpost.

21)The evidence of PW-6 is perfectly corroborated by the evidence of PWs-1, 3
and 4. Her evidence is also supported by the evidence of PWs-1, 2, 3, 4 and

5.
22) The victim 'X' testified as PW-6 that the accused person is known to her. The
incident occurred about a year ago (from 18-11-16). On the day of the
incident, she went to the private tea garden of the accused person’s brother,
as asked by the wife of Sri Dilip Baruah. She was plucking tea leaves in the
garden of the accused person and at about 3:00 pm, she finished her work
and went to collect firewood near the garden. When she was tying together
the firewood, the accused person caught her from behind, gagged her by her
mouth and dragged her into his house which is near the garden. He tied her
mouth with a gamusa and laid her down on the bed and committed rape on
her. While he was sexually assaulting her, she heard the voice of ‘Dodai’

whose name is Kolia and who came to the accused person’s house to collect

money and then she managed to shout. Then the accused threatened her
with a kotari (kitchen knife). She somehow managed to remove the gamusa
from her mouth and she again shouted and ran towards the door, but the
door was latched and the top latch of the door was locked. She pushed the
door and managed to open it and ran out. While running out, she was naked.
Then she met Sri Dilip Baruah’s wife in front of the gate and she gave her
some clothes. She also asked her what had happened and she narrated the
incident to her. Then she suggested her to immediately go home. She took
the clothes from her and ran towards her house. Then she narrated the
incident to her father. Her mother had expired. Her father did not pay
attention what she had stated, because he usually remains inebriated. In the
evening, when her elder brother returned from work, she informed him about
the incident. On the next morning, she also informed about the incident to
her uncle Kolia. On the next morning, her elder brother along with the

villagers went to the accused person’s house. The police came and took the
accused from the house on the next day. When the police took the accused,
she along with her brother and the villagers went to Borbam Outpost ad her
brother Debartu lodged an ejahar against him. In the outpost, the police
recorded her statement and she was taken to the Assam Medical College &
Hospital at Dibrugarh for medical examination. She also came to the Court for
recording her statement before the Magistrate. During investigation, she
showed the sweater which was kept in the fencing of the accused person’s
premises and the police seized the sweater.

23) This evidence of PW-6 is contradictory to the evidence of PWs-3, 4 and 5
testified that while they were together returning from work, they met the
victim 'X' who was naked. The victim came running out from the accused
person’s house and she was absolutely naked. PW-4 further added that the
victim informed him that the accused committed rape on her. This is a major
contradiction and the accused has to be given the benefit of doubt. The
victim testified that when she came out, she met Sri Dilip Baruah’a wife while
other two witnesses PWs-3 and 4 testified that when the victim came
running, she was undressed and they saw her coming out of the accused
person’s house.

24) The victim testified as PW-6 that when she came running out of the accused
person's house, she met Sri Dilip Baruah’s wife in the front gate and Dilip
Baruah’'s wife gave her some clothes to cover up her body. She also narrated
her about the incident and she suggested her to go home immediately. PW-5
is the Dilip Baruah’s wife and she kept mum about any such incident. She did
not testify that she saw the naked victim running out of the accused person’s
house. She did not testify that she offered any clothes for covering up her

body. On the contrary, PW-s-3 and 4 testified that they saw PW-6 running out
10

of the accused person's house and she was naked at that time. Either PW-6
absolutely forgot the sequel of events or she is lying, because she testified
that when she came running out of the accused person’s house after the
assault, she met PWs-3 and 4. PW-4 went a step ahead further and he
testified that PW-6 narrated the incident immediately at the time when they
met her in a naked condition, while PW-6 testified that on the next morning,
she informed PW-4 about the incident.

25) Several contradictions could be elicited through the evidence-in-chief of PWs-
6, 3, 4. and 5. The evidence is not synchronized. The evidence is not cohesive
and coherent. Moreover, the maroon coloured sweater was seized from the
possession of PW-6 in her house.

26) Another contradiction which could be detected while analyzing the evidence is
that PW-6 testified that while she was being sexually assaulted, she heard
the voice of ‘Dodai’ whose name is Kolia and who came to the accused
person’s house to collect money and then she managed to shout. On the
contrary, Kolia did not testify that at the time of the sexual assault, he went
to the accused person’s house to collect money. He testified as PW-3 that he
met the witness immediately after the assault. The contradictions apparent
on the evidence-in-chief of the witnesses are too many. When there are
contradictions between the testimonies of PW-6 with the testimony of other
witnesses, the evidence of the prosecutrix does not inspire confidence.
Moreover, the victim also testified as PW-6 that the accused resides with his
wife and two sons and his brother Sri Dilip Baruah’s house is adjacent to the
accused person’s house. There are many houses near the place of
occurrence. The accused person's family members were present in his house.

27) If the accused person's family members were present in his house, then how
11

can it be possible for the accused person to commit rape on the victim? There
are other contradictions also which could be elicited by the cross-examination
of the victim and the cross-examination of the IO SI Cheniram Pagag.

28) The IO testified as PW-9 in his cross-examination that the victim did not state
under Section 161 CrPC that the accused attacked her after she completed
her work in the tea garden and was tying up the bundle of firewood. She also
did not state before him that the accused came from behind and then he put
her on the bed. She also did not state that the accused threatened her with a
knife and demanded that she should not scream and then she ran towards
the door, but the door latch was locked. She also did not state under Section
161 CrPC that Kolia Kishan came to Dilip Baruah’s house to ask the money
which he borrowed from him.

29) After scrutinizing the evidence of the victim and the evidence of the IO, it is
held that the victim has exaggerated her evidence. Her evidence is full of
embellishments. Her statement under Section 161 CrPC is not at all similar to
her testimony before the IO. Her statement under Section 164 CrPC also
projects contradictions, because she stated under Section 164 CrPC that the
accused person's family members were not present in his house at the time
of the incident, while she testified in her cross-examination that the accused
person's family members were present in his house. In her statement under
Section 164 CrPC, she stated that the accused person tied her hands and feet
with a gamusa and then he tied her to the bed with the gamusa. She did not
state under Section 164 CrPC that when she tried to scream on hearing
Kolia’s voice, the accused threatened her with a knife, but on the contrary,
she stated under Section 164 CrPC that when she tried to scream, the

accused slapped her. The statement of the victim was exhibited as Ext. 1 by
12

the Magistrate.

30) Smti. Priyanka Hazarika Nair testified as PW-8 that on 16-11-15, she recorded
the statement of the victim under Section 164 CrPC in connection with this
case. Ext. 1 is the statement of the victim and Ext. 1(1) is her signature.

31) The veracity of the victim’s evidence is under cloud, because there are too
many contradictions writ at large. Her conduct also does not inspire
confidence. When she appeared before this Court as PW-6, she did not give
her age, but when she appeared before the Magistrate for recording her
statement under Section 164 CrPC, she mentioned her age as 15 years, while
the MO detected that the victim was above 18 years of age on physical
examination.

32)The MO Dr. Mohsina Ahmed testified as PW-10 that on 09-11-15, while
working as GDMO in the Department of Forensic Medicine, Assam Medical
College & Hospital at Dibrugarh, she examined the victim on police requisition
and found the following:

On genital examination: Genital organs were healthy. Vulva is
healthy. Hymen: Three old tears at 3 O clock, 7 O clock and 9 O
clock position. Vagina and cervix is healthy. Uterus not palpable
clinically. Vaginal smears were taken from posterior fornix in and
around the cervix result of which does not show any spermatozoa.
Radiological finding:
i. X-ray elbow joint (AP view)- Epiphyseal union are
completed;
ii. X-ray wrist joint (AP view)- Epiphyseal union are
completed;
iii. | X-ray of shoulder joint (AP view)- Epiphyseal union are
completed;
iv. X-ray of pelvis (AP view) Iliac crest not united.

33)The MO on the basis of Physical examination, Radiological & Laboratory

Investigation done on the victim 'X', gave the opinion as follows:
13

i. There is no evidence of recent sexual intercourse on
her person;
ii. | There is no recent injury on her body or private parts;
iii. | Her actual age is above 18 years.
Ext. 4 is the Medico-legal Report wherein Ext. 4(1) to Ext. 4(3) are the

signatures of the MO.

34) The learned defence counsel laid stress in his argument that according the
MO, old tear on the hymen denotes more than 72 hours. It is submitted that
the victim was a consenting party and she was accustomed with sexual
intercourse. The alleged incident took place on 07-11-15 and the victim was
examined on the next day on 09-11-15 and an old tear which was more than
72 hours was detected. It is submitted by the learned defence counsel that
old tear was not a result of the incident, because the old tear was older than
72 hours and the incident occurred between 72 hours from the time of the
incident qua the examination of the victim by the MO PW-10.

35) After scrutinizing the evidence of all the witnesses, it is held that the evidence
of the victim does not inspire confidence. It is also held that the victim is not
a minor. Thereby, the accused is not held guilty of the offence under Section
4 of POCSO Act. The accused is also not held guilty of Section 376 IPC due to
major contradictions apparent on the face of the record.

36) The IO conducted the investigation and he is a formal witness. SI Cheniram
Pagag testified as PW-9 that on 08-11-15, he was at Borbam Outpost. On
that day, at about 7:45 am, he received telephonic information from the VDP
Secretary Sri Biren Baruah (the accused person’s father) and he registered a
GE Entry No. 128 dtd. 08-11-15 and proceeded to the place of occurrence.
The accused person’s house was gheraoed (surrounded) by the villagers and

he tried to control the situation. He recorded the statements of the witnesses
14

and seized one black and red sweater from the courtyard as identified by the
victim. Ext. 1 is the Seizure-List and Ext. 1(1) is his signature. Then he went
to the outpost along with the accused and the victim. He received an FIR
from Sri Debaru Kishan and registered a Borbam Outpost GD Entry No. 134
dtd. 08-11-15a d forwarded the same to the OC of Tingkhong Police Station
and registered a Tingkhong PS Case No. 130/15 under Section 376 IPC, read
with Section 4 of POCSO Act and endorsed him with the investigation. Ext. 3
is the FIR and Ext. 3(1) is the signature of the OC of Tingkhong Police
Station. He recorded the statement of the informant and forwarded her for
medical examination and to the Court for recording her statement. On finding
prima facie materials, he submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused. Ext. 6
is the Charge-Sheet and Ext. 6(1) is his signature.

37)I have carefully scrutinized the entire evidence and it has already been held
in my foregoing discussions that the testimony of the victim does not inspire
confidence. It is held that the prosecution failed to prove beyond reasonable
doubt that the accused committed rape on the victim. The victim is not held
to be reliable. The accused Sri Nilip Baruah is thereby acquitted from the
charges under Section 376 IPC, read with Section 4 of POCSO Act.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 28" day of
September, 2018.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
15

APPENDIX
POCSO Case No. 7/16

List of witnesses for prosecution:
1. PW-1 Sri Debaru Kishan;
2. PW-2 Sri Biren Baruah;
3. PW-3 Sri Kolia Kishan;
4. PW-4 Sri Lakhinath Kishan;
5. PW-5 Smti. Monika Baruah;
6. PW-6 The victim 'X';
7. PW-7 Sri Monsai Kishan;
8. PW-8 Smti. Priyanka Hazarika Nair;
9. PW-9 SI Cheniram Pagag; and
10. PW-10 Dr. Mohsina Ahmed.
List of exhibits for prosecution:
1. Ext. 1 Seizure-List;
2. Ext. 2 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
3. Ext. 3 Ejahar;
4. Ext. 4 Medico-legal Report;
5. Ext. 5 Sketch-Map; and
6. Ext. 6 Charge-Sheet.
List of material exhibits for prosecution: Nil.
List of witnesses for defence: Nil.

List of exhibits for defence: Nil.

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
