Page 1 of 5

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 25/15

Informant: |= Smti. Madhu Sonar,
D/o- Sri Dolbahadur Sonar,
R/o-New Madhuting, near GCS-7,
PS- Duliajan,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Jadav Ahom,
S/o- Sri Punaram Ahom,
R/o- Khowang Haldabari,
PS- Khowang,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Smti. R Ray, learned Advocate.
Page 2 of 5

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 25/15
G.R. Case No. 475/14

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Jadav Ahom

Charge u/S 451 IPC, r/w Section 8 PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 23-06-15, 22-07-15, 22-07-15, 22-07-15 & 26-08-15.
Date of argument : 24-09-15.
Date of Judgment —_: 24-09-15.

1)

2)

3)

4)

JUDGMENT
Prosecution case is that on 22-02-14, the accused person who was working
as Home Guard and posted at Oil India, trespassed into the house of the
alleged victim and touched her with sexual intent. On 23-02-14, the victim
lodged the ejahar at Bhadoi Police Outpost which was forwarded to Duliajan
Police Station and Duliajan PS Case No. 62/14 was registered. In course of
the investigation, the Investigating Officer visited the place of occurrence,
drew up Sketch-Map, recorded the statement of the informant and also got
the statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC. On completion
of investigation, he submitted Charge-Sheet.
Upon committal, my learned predecessor framed charges under Sections 451
IPC, r/w Section 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offices Act
(hereinafter PCSO Act) against the accused person and the charges were
read over and explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried.
In course of trial, prosecution examined five witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused person was examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused person took the plea of denial.
Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and Smti. R Ray, learned counsel

for the defence.
Page 3 of 5

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

1. Whether the prosecutrix was a child within the meaning of Section
2(d) of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012
(hereinafter ‘the Act’)?

2. Whether the accused person trespassed into the hose of the victim
with intention to committing an offence?

3. Whether the accused committed sexual assault upon the prosecutrix?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

5)
6)

7)

8)

9)

All the points are discussed simultaneously for the sake of convenience.

PW-1 Sri Mahendra Chetri is not an eye-witness to the occurrence and he
merely deposed that he came to know that the alleged victim had lodged an
ejahar and police came to the place of occurrence and asked his name and
place of duty when he was posted as a Home Guard at GCS-7 of Oil India.
PW-3 Smti. Mina Kumari Dorji deposed that she knew both the accused and
the victim and she heard from the neighbouring people that the accused
misbehaved with the victim, but she did not see the occurrence.

PW-4 Sri Amar Subba also deposed that he knew both the accused and the
victim. It was reported to him by his brother that some incident had taken
place near the house of the victim and accordingly, he went to the place of
occurrence and upon asking, the victim told him that while she was working
inside her house, the accused came and gave a proposal to marry. During
cross-examination, she stated that the victim did not report about anything
else having been done by the accused to her.

The victim herself was examined as PW-2. She stated that on the day of
occurrence, in the evening, while she was preparing food in her kitchen, the
accused went there and caught hold of her from the backside and when she
shouted, the accused fled. During cross-examination, she stated that the
accused was engaged as Security Guard at an OIL rig near her house and
sometimes he used to visit her house. She did not know if the accused
caught hold of her jokingly. In other words, it cannot be said that the accused
touched the victim with sexual intent so as to make out a case under Section
of PCSO Act. Statement of the victim was recorded by the learned Magistrate
vide Ext. 2 wherein the victim had stated that on 22-02-14 when she was in

the kitchen of her house, the accused came and caught hold of her from
Page 4 of 5

backside and when she shouted, the accused fled and all the people of the
house saw the accused flee and that the accused caught her with bad
intention. But during cross-examination, PW-2 stated that she had given the
statement before the Magistrate regarding her age as 16 (sixteen) on being
tutored by police and that she has no allegation against the accused person.

10) It may be noted that the victim stated during cross-examination that at the
time of occurrence, she was 19 years old. PW-1 also stated similarly. Medical
examination to determine her age was not carried out and no documentary
evidence of age to show that the victim was below 18 years, has been
adduced in evidence.

11) Under the above circumstances and in view of the evidence discussed above,
it is neither established that the victim was a child within the meaning of
PCSO Act or that the accused did any act with sexual intent involving physical
contact with the victim. Similarly, there is also no evidence to establish that
the accused committed house trespass into the house of the victim in order
to commit an offence.

12)In view of the forgoing discussion, I hold that the prosecution has failed to
establish its case beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, the accused
person is acquitted of the offence under Sections 451 IPC, r/w Section 8
PCSO Act and he be set at liberty forthwith.

13) The bail bond shall remain in force for a further period of 6 (six) months
under Section 437-A CrPC.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 24" day of

September, 2015.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 5 of 5

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 Sri Mahendra Chetri;
2. PW-2 Smti. Madhu Sonar;
3. PW-3 Smti. Mina Kumari Dorji;
4. PW-4 Sri Amar Subba; and
5. PW-5 SI Biswajit Saikia.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Ejahar;
2. Ext. 2 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
3. Ext. 3 Sketch-Map;
4. Ext. 4 Injury Report; and
5. Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
