1 eCourtIS copy

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE ::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,

SPECIAL CASE NO.07/2019
U/S.4 of POCSO Act

STATE OF ASSAM

Vs

Md. Sofiqul Islam
S/O. Mazibor Rohman
Vill- Jalabila

P.S. Bagribari

Dist. Kokrajhar

beneaees Accused person.
Appearance: -

Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Manjit Ghose, Special P.P
Learned Counsel for the defence Mr. Iqbal Hussain

Charge framed on 02.05.2019

Evidence recorded on 19.08.2019;

27.09.2019

Argument heard on 21.01.2020

Judgment pronounced on 01.02.2020
JUDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution is that on 5.1.2019 at about 8 PM one
xxxx, the father of the victim, lodged anwriten FIR at Bogribari Police

Station alleging that accused Sofikul Islam has been maintaining sexual

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
2 eCourtIS copy
relationship with her daughter xxx, aged 17 years and the other accused
Mojibar Rahman, Sahiton Bibi and Roshid Ali have been defaming the name

of his daughter.

2. On receipt of the FIR a case under Section 120B/457/354//34 IPC read
with Section 4 of the POCSO Act was registered and after completion of the
investigation, a charge sheet was laid against the accused Sofiqul Islam _ for
commission of offence U/S457/355 IPC read with Section 4 of the POCSO

Act. The other accused were not sent up for trial.

3s The accused person was summoned and on his appearance, copies
of the relevant documents were furnished to him. The case was transferred
to this Court for disposal. After hearing both sides charges under Section 4
of the POCSO Act was framed against the accused to which he pleaded not

guilty and claimed trial.

4, In the course of trial prosecution examined 3 (three) witnesses. At
the closure of prosecution evidence, the accused person was examined U/S
313 of the CrPC. The defence plea is of total denial and the accused

declined to adduce any evidence.

5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused is guilty of offence under Section 4 of

the POCSO Act?

DECISION AND REASONS :

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIS copy
S. Pwl xxx, the father of the victim deposed that he is the informant of
this case. About 6 months back, he had seen the accused in his residence
embracing his daughter Arifa Knatun who was then aged about 14 years.
He immediately informed local villagers and they asked him to hand over
the accused to Police. He accordingly informed the police. Police team
came to his residence and took away the accused. He had lodged the FIR

and he had put thumb impression.

7. In cross examination Pwl deposed that he does not know the

contents of the FIR.

8. Pw2 xxx, the mother of victim, deposed that about 8 months back, at
about 7 p.m she was away from her home. At that time, the accused came
to their house and was talking to their daughter. When her husband
reached home he saw her daughter talking to accused. Her husband
raised hue and cry and informed the police. She know only this much

about this case.

9. At this stage, learned Special P.P sought leave of the Court to declare
the witness as hostile. In cross examination by Special P.P, pw 2 deposed
that they had settled the dispute with accused. Pw 2 denied the suggestion
that she had stated before Police that her husband had seen her

daughter having sex with the accused.

10. In cross examination of Pw2 by the defence, she deposed that her

statement was never recorded by Police.

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
4 eCourtIS copy

11.  Pw3 xxx, the victim, deposed that tabout 7 months back accused had
come to her residence at about 7 p.m. At that time her father and mother
were away from home. While they were talking, her father came home
and started rebuking her. He raised a hue and cry and lot of people
gathered. Later her father lodged a police case. She was produced before
the Magistrate and her statement was recorded. Ext 1 is the statement,

Ext 1 (1)(2) are her signatures.

12. At this stage, learned Special PP sought leave of the Court to declare
the witness as hostile. In cross examination by Special PP, pw 3 deposed
that they had settled the case with accused. Pw 3 denied the suggestion
that she had stated before the Magistrate that her father caught her red

handed while she was having sexual intercourse with the accused.

13. In cross examination of Pw3 by the defence, pw 3 deposed that she
does not know after how many days her father lodged the case. Her
father did not inquire from her before lodging the case. She does not know
the contents of the FIR. She also deposed that police had asked her to
depose in the manner as stated in her statement under Section 164 CrPC.

She deposed that accused never had any sexual intercourse with her.

14. In the course of investigation, the victim and her parents had not
given consent for conducting medical examination of the victim. Thus,

neither there is any medical evidence nor is there any oral evidence to

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
3 eCourtIS copy
suggest that victim is sexually exposed and that the accused committed

sexual intercourse with the vicitm.

15. In view of the above, the point for determination is answered in

negative.

ORDER

Accused Md.Sofiqul Islam is acquitted of the charge under Section 4
of POCSO Act and set at liberty forthwith.
His bail bonds shall remain valid for six months.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court on this 1* day of

February,2020.

Dictated by
Special Judge Special Judge
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
6 eCourtIS copy

Appendix

1. Prosecution Exhibits :-
Exhibit-1 Statement

2. Defence Exhibit Nil

3. Prosecution Witness

P.W.1 Md. Iman Ali
P.W.2 Musstt. Joyoda Bibi
P.W.3 XXX victim
4.Defence Witness Nil
5. Court witness Nil

Special Judge
Kokrajhar

Note:- This is not certified copy. Contact the Office of District & Sessions Judge, Kokrajhar, for a certified copy.
