IN THE COURT OF THE ADDL. SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No. 59/2017
(Arising out of G.R. Case No. 4517/2017)
U/S 12 of POCSO ACT, 2012

PRESENT : Sri Chatra Bhukhan Gogoi
Special Judge,
Barpeta.

Charge framed on:- 05.05.2018

State of Assam
-Vs-
Mazam Khan....Accused person.

Date of Recording Evidence on - 05.01.2019
Date of Hearing Argument on - 05.01.2019
Date of Delivering the Judgment on - 05.01.2019

Appearance :
Advocate for the State------------------ Mrs. P. Das, Ld. Addl. P.P.
Advocate for the Accused-------------- Mr. A. Mannan, Ld. Advocate.
UDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 16.09.2017 one Sanowar Hussain

lodged an FIR in Barpeta police station alleging inter-alia that on 15.09.2017 after the
end of school, while his girl student namely-(X) was proceeding to house accused
restrained her on her way and touching her body, pulled her school bag and put a
mobile phone number in the bag directing her to love him and call him in the number.
Seeing this one Ajijul Hoque came to rescue her following which accused left the place
but subsequently, he again disturbed the girl while coming to school. But then accused
was caught with the help of other students. Hence, the case for taking action in
accordance with law.

2. Following the information as above, Barpeta police station registered a case
being Barpeta PS. Case No.1582/2017 u/s 341/352/506 IPC R/W section 12 of POCSO
Act and investigated the case.

3. During the course of investigation, police visited the place of occurrence,
recorded the statements of the witnesses and on completion of investigation police
finally laid the charge sheet u/s 341/352/506 IPC R/W section 12 of POCSO Act with the
view to stand trial.

4. During the course of time, when accused entered his appearance in court,
having heard the learned counsels appearing for both sides and perusing the materials
2

available on record vide order dated 05.05.2018 charges u/s 12 of POCSO Act was
framed. The substance of the offence on being read over and explained accused
pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

5. During the course of trial, prosecution, however, examined only 2 witnesses
namely- the informant as PW-1 and the alleged victim as PW-2. However, during the
course of their evidence, considering the quality of evidence adduced by both the
prosecution witnesses, learned Addl. P.P. submitted that proceeding further with the
case would be nothing but a meaningless exercise as the main witnesses are not
supporting the prosecution case. Hence, hearing the learned Addl. P.P. further
prosecution evidence stands closed.

6. Examination of accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C. is also dispensed with in view of lack of
implicating materials. The defence plea is total denial of the prosecution case. As such,
on being asked, accused person declined to adduce defence evidence.

7. Now point for determination ;-

1. Whether on 15.09.2017 accused committed sexual harassment upon the
victim girl (X) punishable u/s 12 of POCSO Act 2012 as alleged ?

8. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision $:-

| have heard the learned lawyers appearing for both sides and carefully
scanned the documents and evidence available on record for arriving at a just decision
in the case.
9. At the first instance, the learned Addl. P.P. submitted that the star witnesses of
the prosecution is not supporting the case. Therefore, going further with the recording
of evidence of remaining witnesses would be a meaningless exercise.
10. Supporting this contention, learned defence counsel contended that it is a
totally false and fabricated case against the accused person. So, prosecution failed to
bring home the guilt, particularly by the alleged victim girl. Therefore, the defence
counsel contended that it a fit case to record judgment of acquittal on the ground of
insufficient evidence.
11. Having heard the rival contention of the learned counsel and on careful perusal
of evidence of both sides it transpires that PW-1 is the Principal of Banglipara High
Madrasa School and he lodged the FIR on the basis of oral intimation made to him by
the alleged victim girl and other students. So, he is not an eye witness to the alleged
occurrence. His evidence is purely hearsay in nature and no credibility can be placed
on his evidence unless supported by evidence of other prosecution witnesses.
12. Here in, the alleged victim girl has been examined by prosecution as PW-2, who
during the course of her deposition failed to implicate the accused with the alleged
offence u/s 12 of POCSO Act. According to her, while she was proceeding to her house
3

in her bicycle after school her bicycle hit with the bicycle of accused Mazam Khan as a
result of which she fell on the ground. On reaching home she found a piece of paper in
her bag in which a mobile number was written there. On reaching the school on the
next day she narrated the incident to Principal following which a case was lodged. But
in her evidence she has not stated anything specifically to show that the accused
utters any words or makes any sound or gesture with intention that it will be heard by
her or repeatedly or constantly followed her by him or did any such act concerning any
sexual activity in any form or manner. She simply stated that her bicycle hit the bicycle
of accused on the road and nothing else.

13. Therefore, from her evidence no conviction can be sustained u/s 12 of POCSO
Act for commission of acts enumerated in section 11 of POCSO Act. The ingredients of
offences described in section 11 of POCSO Act has not been attracted in the course of
her evidence of the prosecution witnesses for sustaining conviction of accused u/s 12
of POCSO Act. Since the evidence of the alleged victim herself is unsubstantiated one
going for record evidence of other prosecution witnesses also useless exercise at the
cost of valuable time and energy of court.

14. Therefore, this court has no option but to record the judgment of acquittal of
accused Mazam Khan from the alleged offence u/s 12 of POCSO Act on the ground of
insufficient evidence which this court hereby do.

15. In the result, accused is acquitted from the charge u/s 12 of POCSO Act
forthwith.

16. His bail bond stand canceled and surety is discharged.

17. Let a copy of the judgment be sent to the learned District Magistrate, Barpeta

for his information as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.
18. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 5th day of January. 2019, at
Barpeta.

Dictated & Corrected my me

Sd/-
Sd/- (Sri C.B. Gogoi)
(Sri C.B. Gogoi) Special Judge,
Special Judge, Barpeta.

Barpeta.
APPENDIX

1. The prosecution has examined the following 2 nos. of witnesses :-

PW-1 = Sanowar Hussain, the informant.
PW-2

is the victim (X).

2. The prosecution exhibited only one document :-

Ext.1 = is the FIR.
Ext.1(1)=is the signature of informant Sanowar Hussain.

Sd/-
(Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
