Page 1 of 5

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 24/15

Informant: = Sri Anuj Gogoi,
S/o- Sri Pramud Gogoi,
R/o- Rajakhat Gaon,
PS- Lahoal,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Hunmoni Nath,
S/o- Sri Ananta Nath,
R/o- Johamari Gaon,
PS- Thelamara,
District- Sonitpur.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Smti. H Kalita, learned Advocate.
Page 2 of 5

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 24/15
G.R. Case No. 2707/14

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Hunmoni Nath

Charge u/Ss 366 IPC/6 PCSO Act, r/w S. 5(1) PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 21-11-15.
Date of argument — : 21-11-15.
Date of Judgment — : 21-11-15.

1)

2)

3)

4)

JUDGMENT

Prosecution case is that on 10-10-14, while the prosecutrix was going to her
school, the accused person by deceitful means induced her to go with him
and thereby abducted her in order to seduce her to illicit intercourse.
Subsequently, the accused person after taking her to Guwahati, committed
penetrative sexual assault upon her on a number of occasions. The father of
the prosecutrix lodged an ejahar on 18-10-14 and accordingly, Lahoal PS
Case No. 171/14 was registered and investigation commenced. In course of
such investigation, the Investigating Officer recorded the statement of the
witnesses and recovered the prosecutrix from Guwahati along with the
accused. Subsequently, her statement was recorded by the Magistrate under
Section 164 CrPC and on completion of investigation, the Investigating Officer
submitted Charge-Sheet.

Upon committal, this Court framed charges under Sections 366 IPC, r/w S.
6/5(l) of Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act (hereinafter PCSO
Act) against the accused person and the charge was read over and explained
to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
In course of trial, prosecution examined two witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused person was examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused person took the plea of denial.

Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and Smti. Kalita, learned counsel
5)

6)

Page 3 of 5

for the defence.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION
1. Whether the accused person kidnapped or abducted the prosecutrix?
2. Whether the accused person committed aggravated penetrative
sexual assault upon the prosecutrix?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1 & 2:

PW-2, father of the prosecutrix deposed that the alleged incident took place
in the month of October, 2014. On the day of occurrence, his daughter went
to her school. But she did not return to their house on the said date. PW-2
tried to find her out on every possible place and he also made several calls to
her over phone, but her mobile phone was found switched off. Therefore, he
lodged an ejahar at the police station. Ext. 2 is the ejahar lodged by him
wherein Ext. 2(1) is his signature. Later on, he got the information that his
daughter was staying with the accused at Guwahati and he along with police
went to Guwahati and recovered her and brought back her to his house. At
the time of occurrence, age of his daughter was fourteen years of age. Police
recorded the statement of his daughter. His daughter also came to the Court
for recording her statement before the Magistrate. He further stated that his
daughter is presently staying with him. During cross-examination, he stated
that he had mentioned in the ejahar that on 10-10-14, his
daughter/prosecutrix had sent a message through her mobile phone being
No. 7399569873 to a lady who resides near his house that she had
voluntarily went to the accused. He further stated that at present, he do not
want to proceed with the case and he does not have any objection if the
accused is released from this case.

PW-1, the prosecutrix deposed that on the day of occurrence, she met the
accused at Moran and both of them boarded a Traveller vehicle and went to
Guwahati and stayed in a hotel as husband and wife for three months. During
their stay at Guwahati, her father went to Guwahati along with police and
brought both of them to their house. During cross-examination, she stated
that during their stay at Guwahati, there was no cohabitation between them.
She further stated that her house is situated under Lahoal Police Station. She
went to Moran and met the accused there and thereafter both of them went

to Guwahati. She stated that she has no objection if the accused be released
7)

8)

9)

Page 4 of 5

from the charge and she did not want to proceed with the case against the
accused.

From the evidence discussed above, no clear evidence of sexual intercourse
has emerged as the prosecutrix denied cohabitation and therefore, the
charge in this regard must also fail. The point is answered accordingly.

From the above, it is quite apparent that the alleged victim had voluntarily
gone with the accused person and she recorded her aged as 17 (seventeen)
years. It appears from the Medical Report that she refused medical
examination. Therefore, there is no medical evidence regarding her age.
Neither has any document in the form of School Certificate or otherwise been
submitted to show that she was below 18 (eighteen) at the time of
occurrence.

Therefore, this appears to be a case of voluntary elopement by a girl on the
verge of majority and following the decision of the Hon'ble Apex Court in
Shyam and another vs. State of Maharashtra 1995 CrLJ 397 (SC), the

same cannot be regarded as “Taking” as defined under Section 361 IPC.

10)In the result, I hold that the prosecution has failed to establish its case

beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, the accused person is acquitted
of the offence under Sections 366 IPC, r/w S. 6/5(I) PCSO Act and he be set
at liberty forthwith.

11) Previous bail bond shall remain in force for a further period of 6 (six) months

under Section 437-A CrPC.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 21* day of

November, 2015.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 5 of 5

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 The prosecutrix; and
2. PW-2 Sri Anuj Gogoi.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC; and
2. Ext. 2 First Information Report.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Transcribed and typed by:-
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
