a?

u\”

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: ShriS. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,

Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO. 6(DH) 2018.

U/s 8 of POCSO Act R/W Sec. 354 of I.P.C.

(G.R.Case No.878/2017 (slp); Silapathar P.S. Case No.341/2017 U/S 8 of

POCSO Act)
The State of Assam
- Versus —
Shri Tuladhar Hazarika,
S/O Balibor Hazarika,
R/O Gai-Nadi,
P.S. Silapathar,
Dist.- Dhemaji.

Appearance:
Shri A. Fogla, Public Prosecutor

Smt. Beauty Phukan, Advocate

(Legal-Aid Counsel)

Dates of prosecution evidence :

Date of argument

Date of Judgment

dienes Accused Person

a For the State

sinteteant For the Accused

09-10-2018,3-11-2018,30-11-2018,
18-01-2019 and 28-02-2019.

: 22-05-2019.

: 04-06-2019.
a

| Judys,
Special -

JUDGMENT

i; The prosecution case in brief is that on 16-09-2017 complainant- Smt.
Matu Chutia, W/O Shri Sushil Chutia, R/O Gai-Nadi, P.S. Silapathar, District-
Dhemaji, lodged an ejahar with Sissiborgaon Police Out Post under Silapathar
Police Station alleging interalia that on 25-09-2017 at about 9 A.M. in the
morning the accused-Tuladhar Hazarika called her minor daughter-Smti ‘x’
(real Name is withheld) aged about 10 years to his house to bring broom and
then the accused gagged her mouth inside his house and grabbed her. As it
was school time, she (complainant) went to the house of the accused and
saw the accused in such a grabbing condition and raised hue and cry and
then the accused left his home. It is alleged in the ejahar that on 26-09-2017
at about 10 AM the accused came to his house and then her family members
and other villagers apprehended the accused and informed the Police.

2 On receipt of the ejaha, In-Charge of Sissiborgaon Police Out Post
made G.D. Entry vide No.242 dated 16-09-2017 and forwarded the same to
O/C, Silapathar Police Station for registering a case under appropriate
sections of law and I/C himself took investigation of the case. Accordingly, on
receipt of the said ejahar, O/C, Silapathar Police Station registered a case
vide Silapathar P.S. Case No. 341/2017 Under Section- 8 of the POCSO Act.
On completion of investigation police submitted Charge-sheet against the
accused-Shri TuladharHazarikla u/s 8 of POCSO Act.

a On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the accused, this
Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing both the sides,
framed charges u/s 8 of POCSO Act read with Sec. 354 of IPC and read-over
and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The prosecution, in
order to prove its case, examined 8 witnesses. At the closure of prosecution
evidence, statement of the accused was recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C. Defence
plea is of total denial. However, defence declined to adduce evidence in
support of the plea.
4.Points for determination :

 

(1) That, on 15-09-2017 at about 9 AM at Gai-Nadi under
Silapathar Police Station, you committed sexual assault; touching the
breast of Smt. ‘X’, a minor girl aged about 10 years inside your house
and thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 8 of POCSO Act.

(2) That you, on the same day, time and place you used
criminal force to Smt. ‘Xx’, a minor girl aged about 10 years, intending
to outrage her modesty inside your house and thereby you committed
an offence punishable u/s 354 of IPC.

9. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard arguments of
both sides.

Discussion of Evidence :

 

6. PW1 Smti ‘x’ stated that the complainant Ma-tu Chutia is her mother.
She knows the accused Tuladhar Hazarika. The occurrence took place about
one year back. She reads in Gaideori LP School in class IV. On the date of
occurrence she went to accused- Tuladhar Hazarika’s house to bring a broom
as she had to take it to her school as handicraft item. When she reached the
house of the accused, he dragged her inside his house and gagged her
mouth and then he touched her breast and also grabbed her from behind and
he was pressing something hard on her back. At that moment her mother
arrived there and then the accused released her. She came back home with
her mother. At home she told her mother that the accused physically abused
her in the manner stated above. Her mother lodged complaint before police.
Police produced her before Magistrate and she gave statement before
Magistrate. She was also medically examined. Ext.1 is the statement u/s 164
Cr.PC. and Ext.1(1) and Ext.1(2) are her signatures therein.

In cross-examination PW1 denied the defence suggestion that she has
deposed as tutored by her mother. She also denied that accused did not drag
\ol”

Judge,

her inside his house. She denied that the accused did not gag her mouth. It
is denied that the accused did not touch her breast and did not grab from
behind. It is also denied that the accused was not pressing something hard
on her back. She also denied the defence suggestion that at that time her
mother did not arrive there and accused released her.

v PW2 Smti Ma-tu Chutia stated that she is the complainant. She knows
the accused Tuladhar Hazarika. Victim Smt.'X’ is her daughter. The
occurrence took place about one year back. On the date of occurrence her
daughter went to accused’s house to bring a broom as she has to take it to
her school as handicraft item. At the time of occurrence she went to river to
wash clothes. After finishing washing of clothes she came back home. She
did not find her daughter at home and then she looked for her here and there
and she arrived at the accused’s house. When she reached hisr house, she
found that her daughter was inside the house of the accused and she was in
the grip of the accused and she saw that you were pressing her daughter's
breast. She raised alarm and then accused released her daughter and ran
away. She came back home with her daughter. She told the villagers about
the incident and discussed the matter. Next day the villagers caught the
accused and accused was handed over to police. She lodged complaint at the
Police Station. Ext.2 is the ejajhar. She put her thumb impression in Ext.2.

In cross-examination PW2 stated that accused lived alone in his house.
She denied the defence suggestion that she has falsely stated that accused
grabbed her daughter and he also molested her daughter by pressing her
breast. She denied that she told falsely to the villagers that accused molested
her daughter. She denied that she falsely stated that accused ran away from
his house. It is also denied that accused did not molest her daughter.

8. PW3 Smti Dapun Chutia stated that she knows the complainant as
well as the accused Tuladhar Hazarika. She also knows the victim Smti ‘x’.
ue

The incident took place one year back. She heard that accused physically
abused the victim girl who is aged about 12 years.

In cross-examination PW3 denied the defence suggestion that she had
not heard that the accused physically abused the victim.

9. PW4 Smt. Dhanaki Chutia stated that the complainant is her
daughter-in-law. She knows the accused Tuladhar Hazarika. Victim is her
granddaughter. The incident took place one year back. Her daughter-in-law
told her that the accused physically abused her granddaughter. At the time of
incident her granddaughter was aged about 10 years.

In cross-examination PW4 denied the defence suggestion that her
daughter-in-law had not told her that the accused physically abused her
daughter.

10. PW5 Smti Jonali Hazarika stated that she know the complainant as
well as the accused Tuladar Hazarika. She also knows the victim Smt. ‘X’. The
occurrence took place about 1 (one) year back. She heard that accused
physically abused the victim.

In cross-examination PW5 denied the defence suggestion that he had
not heard that the accused physically abused the victim.

11. PW6 Smt. Phul Bhuyan stated that she knows the complainant as well
as the accused. She also knows the victim Smt. ‘xX’. The occurrence took
place about 1 (one) year back. She heard that the accused was involved in

abusing a girl.
This witness was not cross-examined by defence.

12, PW7 Dr. Pranabjyoti Dutta stated that on 18-09-2017 he was posted
at Dhemaji Civil Hospital as Senior M&HO. On that day on police requisition
vide SBGN OP GDE No.242 dated 16-09-2017 he examined the victim Smt.
‘X’, age about 10 years, female. She was identified and escorted by WHG
Ritamoni Handique. On examination he found as follows:
“le”

Judge.

A

Short History:-
Alleged history of sexual assault on 15-09-2017.

Detail of Medical Examination:-
No external injury seen.
Breast are poorly developed/no injury seen.
Pubic hair and axillary hair are not developed.
Vulva vagina poorly developed.
Hymen intact/no injury seen.

On investigation:-

. Urine for HCG- Negative
. Age of the person is above 9 years and below 15 years.
. Perineal swab for spermatozoa- Nil

BR W fh eS

. USG of pelvic organ — No visible sign of conception at the
time of examination.

Impression:- At the time of examination no sign of forceful sexual
intercourse found. The age of the lady is above 9 years and below 15
years.

Ext.3 is theMedico legal report and Ext.3(1) is his signature. Ext.4 is
ultrasonography report and Ext.4(1) is the signature of Dr. B . Kuli
(Radiologist) which he knows. Ext.5 is vaginal swab examination/urine
examination report and Ext.5(1) is the signature of Dr. Jatindra Moran which
is known to him. Ext.6 is Pregnancy test report. Ext.7 is Radiology report and
Ext.7(1) is the signature of Dr. B. Kuli which is known to him.

Defence side declined to cross-examination the Doctor.

13. PW8 Nirmal Biswas stated that on 16-09-2017 he was posted at
Sissiborgaon OP as I/C. On that day he received an ejahar from Smt. Matu
| Judge,
oes

Chutia. In the said ejahar it is stated that on 15-09-2017 the accused-
Tuladhar Hazarika sexually abused complainant's daughter Smt. ‘X’ at his
house. When the complainant came to Tuladhar’s house and saw the incident
the accused fled away. Victim’s family members and the neighboring people
apprehended the accused and then lodged complaint. On receipt of the
ejahar, he made GD Entry Vide No.242 dated 16-09-2017 and sent the
original copy of ejahr to OC Silapathar for registering a case. Accordingly, a
case being Silapathar PS Case No.341/2017 u/s 8 of POCSO Act registered
and he was entrusted with the investigation. He got the victim medically
examined. He visited the PO and drew sketch map. He recorded statement of
the witnesses u/s 161 Cr.PC. He arrested the accused and sent the accused
to Judicial Custody. He produced the victim before Magistrate and recorded
her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC. He collected the medical report of the victim.
After completion of investigation he filed charge sheet against the accused
u/s 8 of POCSO Act. Ext.8 is GD Entry and Ext.8(1) is his signature. Ext.9 is
the sketch map and Ext.9(1) is his signature. Ext.10 is the charge-sheet and
Ext.10(1) is his signature. Ext.2 is ejahar and Ext.2(1) is his signature with
note. Complainant put her thumb impression in the ejahar.

Defence side declined to cross-examination PW8.

Appreciation of Evidence :

14. From the discussion of the evidence on record it appears that victim
has been examined as PW1. The victim is aged about 10 years and at the
relevant time she was reading at Class IV. According to victim on the date of
occurrence at school time she went to the house of accused to bring a
broom as she had to take it to her school as handicraft item. She stated that
when she reached accused’s house he gagged her mouth , touch her breast
from behind and he pressed something heard on her back. At that moment
victim’s mother came and accused released her. PW2 is mother of the victim
corroborated PW1 stating that on the relevant date PW1 had gone to
accused's house to bring a broom and she (PW2) went to river to wash
Clothes. After washing of clothes she came back home and looked for her
daughter and then came to the house of accused and saw the accused
physically abused her daughter by pressing her breast. PW3, PW4, PW5 and
PW6 stated that they heard about the incident that accused physically
abused PW1. The IO on receipt of ejahar registered a case and recorded
statement of witnesses and victim and he also produced the victim before
magistrate and she also gave statement before magistrate u/s 164 Cr.PC and
got her medically examined and collected report.

15.  Perused the statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.PC. The victim stated
that on the relevant date on the morning she was at the veranda of her
house and then the accused called her to his house and physically abused
her by pressing her breast.

16. On consideration of the evidence on record it is found that there are
contradiction and discrepancies in the evidence of the victim and her mother
PW2. PW1 and PW2 both claimed that PW2 went to the PO and saw the
accused grabbing PW1. But PW1 in her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC did not
make mention of her mother going to the house of the accused and
witnessing the incident. In view of what has been noticed above I find that
evidence of the PW2 is not acceptable as regards her statement that see
witnessed the incident. Defence during cross examination suggested that
false evidence has been given as regards physical abuse by the accused on
the victim. Defence also put suggestion to PW1 that her mother did not
arrive at the PO.

17. In the instant case it is found from the materials on record that the
victim girl is aged about 10 years as stated in the ejahar and stated by victim
herself and as per medical report Ext.7 the age of the victim is above 9 years
and below 15 years. So palpably victim is a minor.
18. However having considered the materials on record in its entirety. I

find that there are major contradiction in the evidence of the vital witness
PW1 and PW2 and I find it difficult to act upon their evidence as their
evidence do not inspire confidence.

19. In view of the above I find that prosecution has failed to prove
offence u/s 354 IPC and R/W section 8 of POCSO Act against the accused
beyond all reasonable doubt.

ORDER:

 

20. _I find the accused Tuladhar Hazarika not guilty u/s 354 IPC and
R/W section 8 of POCSO Act. Accordingly, he is acquitted of the charge
leveled against him. Set him at liberty forthwith.

21. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.

22. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 4th day of
June/2019.

ol?”

( S. Das )
