IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE ::::::: KOKRAJHAR

Special Case No.3/2017

State of Assam
Versus

Habej Ali Mandal wees. ACCUSEC

Present: Smt.Mitali Thakuria,
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocate for the State : Mr. N. Roy (P.P.)

Ld. Advocate for the accused : Mr S. Pahariya,

Evidence recorded on : 14.6.17, 16.8.17, 15.11.17 & 31.5.18
Argument heardon — : 21.6.2018
Judgment delivered on : 30.6.2018

JUDGEMENT

1. The first information report of this case was lodged by the
informant SI Jiten Roy before the Officer-in-charge of Kokrajhar PS. stating that
on 14.12.15 at about 12 noon the accused Habej Ali Mandal kidnapped the
minor daughter Purnima Roy of the informant from the PWD road Dimolgaon
High School and confined the minor girl to an unknown place. Thereafter the
police recovered the minor girl from Lakhipur police station at Goalpara district.
The minor girl was produced before the Magistrate for recording her statement

and accordingly her statement under section 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded.
Special Case No.3/17

2

2. On receipt of the first information report in Kokrajhar P.S., a case
has been registered under Kokrajhar PS. case No.917/15 under section
366(A)/34 IPC and thereafter added under section 4 POCSO Act and case was
endorsed to SI Satyajit Borthakur for investigation. During investigation the I.O.
visited the place of occurrence and recorded the statement of the witnesses,
medically examined the victim and after ascertaining the minor age of the
victim, the charge sheet has been filed by the I.O. under section 366(A) IPC and
under section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused Habej Ali Mandal.
Considering the special nature of the case, the accused was produced before this
court and after considerable period in jail hazot my learned Predecessor released
the accused on bail. Relevant copies also furnished to the accused and my
learned Predecessor framed the charge against the accused under section 366(A)
IPC and under section 4 of POCSO Act finding a prima-facie case. The charge
was read over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried.
3. The prosecution side examined as many as eight number of
witnesses including the informant, victim and M.O. as follows:

PW 1 Dr Sushma Brahma

PW 2 Miss Purnima Roy

PW 3 Sri Jiten Roy

PW4 Sri Dinesh Roy

PWS5 Sri Chakrapani Roy

PW6 Smti Sambari Roy

PW 7 Smti Thaneswari Roy

PW8 Sri Ratneswari Roy
4. The defence took the plea of total denial and he has not adduced

any evidence in support of their case. Recording the statement of the accused
Special Case No.3/17

3
under section 313 CrP.C. is dispensed with as there was no incriminating
material against the accused person.
5. Points for determination:
(i)Whether the accused abducted the minor daughter of the
informant with an intention to force her for illicit intercourse ?
(ii)Whether the accused committed the offence of penetrative
sexual assault to the minor victim ?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof:

 

6. To arrive at a just decision I have thoroughly perused the evidences
of prosecution witnesses, assessed them and hearing arguments from both sides
case is decided as follows:-

7. PW1 Medical Officer in her evidence stated that she examined the
victim Purnima Roy and opined that the age of the victim was above 16 years
but below 18 years. No injury mark found on her body and private parts but, it is
opined that the victim might have been exposed to sexual intercourse before 72
hours.

8. PW2 victim Purnima Roy stated in her evidence that she left the
house after quarrelling with her parents. She went to Guwahati alone. Her father
filed the case. She also further stated that the accused did not commit rape on
her. In cross she stated that she visited the residence of her elder sister in
Guwahati.

9. PW3 informant Jiten Roy stated in his evidence that his daughter
Purnima Roy went on missing from the school on the day of incident. He further
stated that he filed the case on suspicion against the accused Habej Ali Mandal.
He found his daughter in the house of his elder daughter and also stated that the
accused did not kidnap his daughter. In cross he stated that his daughter was

about 18 years old at the time of incident.
Special Case No.3/17

4

10. PW4 Dinesh Roy stated in his evidence that the victim Purnima Roy is
his niece. She went on missing from the school at the time of incident. In cross he
stated that the victim Purmima Roy returned home after 11 months and nobody
kidnapped her.

11. PW5 and PW6 stated in their evidence that they do not know anything
about the incident.

12. PW7 Smti Thaneswari Roy stated in her evidence that the informant is
her husband and the victim is her daughter. Her daughter Purnima went on missing
while she was going to school and they suspected that the accused Habej Ali Mondal
kidnapped her daughter. Thereafter her daughter was recovered from the house of her
cousin sister.

13. PW8 Sri Ratneswar Roy stated in his evidence that he does not know the
accused personally though he heard his name. He heard that the daughter of the
informant went with one Habej Ali Mondal.

14. So, from the discussion made above it is seen that there is no eye
witness in this case and none of the witnesses have any personal knowledge in
commission of the offence by the accused. The victim herself did not support the
prosecution case, rather she denied the entire incident as mentioned in the first
information report. As per her she went to Guwahati to her elder sister's house
by her own. Neither the accused kidnapped or abducted her nor he committed
rape on her. As per the informant also he lodged the FIR against the accused
only on suspicion or his daughter went on missing. She left their house without
informing her parents after a quarrel with her mother (PW7).

15. So, from the discussion above it is seen that none of the witnesses
brought allegation against the accused in commission of any penetrative sexual
assault to the victim or abduction. As per medical report the girl was minor at
the time of her examination and she also reported that the victim might have
been exposed to sexual intercourse. But, only on the basis of the medical

evidence the accused cannot be convicted unless supported by vital witnesses.
Special Case No.3/17

5
More so the victim herself as well as her father (informant) have stated that at
the time of incident she was more than 18 years of age. In view of above it is
held that the prosecution could not establish the case against the accused under
section 4 of the POCSO Act beyond all reasonable doubt and hence giving the
benefit of doubt I hereby acquit the accused and set him at liberty forthwith.
16. The judgment is delivered in the open court and given under my

hand and seal of the court on this 30th June/2018 at Kokrajhar court.

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
