Page |/41
Special (POCSO) Case No. 01 of 2017

IN THE SPECIAL COURT :: SONITPUR, TEZPUR:: ASSAM

PRESENT:- N. AKHTAR, AJS
Addl. Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur:: Tezpur.

Special (POCSO) Case No. 01 of 2017.
U/s. 417 IPC, R/w Sec. 4/8 of

Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

 

State of Assam
-V/s-

Sri Khaitu Kumar @ Dipak

FOR THE PROSECUTION Mr. S.K.Moitra, Special PP.
FOR THE DEFENCE = Mrs. D. Sinha, Advocate.

EVIDENCE RECORDED ON

31.5.18, 31.7.18 and 6.3.2020.

ARGUMENTS HEARD ON - 11.03.2020.
JUDGMENT DELIVERED ON_ :- 11.03.2020.
JUDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution in brief is that the informant had been
working in Delhi since last one year and the accused during that time,
developed an illicit relationship with the sister of the informant and
made her pregnant. When the informant returned his home, he got to
know the entire facts and informed the villagers and the accused was
also asked by the villagers and he admitted his guilt but refused to

marry the sister of the informant. Hence, the FIR was lodged.

Pagelof5
Page [2
Special (POCSO) Case No. 01 of 2017

2. Based on the FIR, a case was registered and after completion of
investigation, police laid chargesheet against the accused U/s 376/417
IPC, read with Sec. 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

3. On appearance of the accused person, copies of relevant documents
were furnished to him in compliance of the provision of Sec.207 CrPC.
Having heard both the sides and considered the materials on record,
formal charges were framed against the accused u/s 417 IPC R/w Sec.
4/8 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and had been read over and explained to
the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.

4. During trial, the prosecution has examined as many as 5 (Five)
witnesses. Defence has not examined any witness. At the end of the
trial, the argument advanced by the learned counsel for both the sides

were heard at length.
POINT FOR DETERMINATION

>» Whether the accused on the alleged day of occurrence, cheated the
sister of the informant by making her pregnant and refusing to

marry her later and thereby committed an offence U/s 417 IPC?

> Whether the accused person on the alleged day, committed
penetrative sexual assault and also sexual assault on her and
thereby committed offences U/s 4/8 of the POCSO Act, 2012?

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASON FOR DECISION

 

5. I have heard the arguments advanced by learned counsel for both the
sides and also gone through the evidence on record including the law

relevant to the issue in hand.

6. PW1 (Sri Dhaneswar @ Thaneswar), PW2 (Paniram Gaur), PW3 (Pradip
Kumar), PW4 (Dr. Amarjit Kaur) and PW5 (Gokul Sonowal) are the
witnesses examined in this case. PW4 is the medical officer and PW5 is

Page 20f5
Page /3
Special (POCSO) Case No. 01 of 2017

the investigating officer of this case. It is pertinent to mention here
that the informant and the alleged victim girl could not be
examined in this case as their attendance could not be secured
by the prosecution despite repeated attempts which is clear
from the materials on record. It is again important to point out
here that it is not necessary in a criminal trial that a particular
witness has to be examined to prove a criminal case. No
particular number of witnesses need also be examined. What is
important to see is whether the evidence adduced in a criminal

trial is sufficient to bring home the guilt of the accused.

7. Now in the present case, it would be seen that PW1 being a villager had
stated that the complainant filed a case against the accused on an
allegation that the accused had made her sister pregnant. A village
meeting was held and the villagers asked the accused to keep the
victim but the accused refused to do so. This witness was declared
hostile but nothing has been elicited from his mouth to support the case
of the prosecution. It is also not clear from his evidence that he had
any personal knowledge that the accused made the sister of the

informant pregnant.

8. PW2 has not stated anything supporting the prosecution case. He had
only stated that he did not know anything about the occurrence. He
was also declared hostile but nothing significant could be elicited from
him. PW3 had deposed that the informant filed a case against the
accused on account of some “Gondogul” (anomalies) relating to a
marriage. The alleged victim got pregnant and villagers asked the
accused to marry her but he refused. In his cross-examination, PW3
had however, clearly deposed that he did not know who caused
pregnancy of the victim. Thus, from his evidence also, nothing has
come out to show the complicity of the accused in the commission of
the alleged offence. PW4 is the medical officer who examined the

alleged victim girl but could not give any opinion about any fact as

Page 3 of 5
Page |4
Special (POCSO) Case No. 01 of 2017

there was no document produced before her. PW4 also could not give
any opinion as to whether the alleged victim girl was pregnant. PW5 is
the investigating officer who conducted the investigation of the case.
He visited the PO, prepared sketch map, recorded the statement of the
witnesses and sent the alleged victim girl for medical examination who
refused the medical examination. Age certificate of the victim girl was
tried to be collected but no such certificate was handed over to him.
PW5 had further deposed that during continuation of the investigation,
the entire family of the victim girl had shifted to a different place and it
was heard that they had shifted to Chennai but no address could be

ascertained.

9. Except the above, there is no any other evidence on record. Thus, it
appears that there is no cogent evidence on record to show the age of
the alleged victim girl. There is also no medical evidence on record to
show that the alleged victim girl was pregnant and also that she was
pregnant from the accused. The alleged victim girl and the informant
could not be examined in this case as their address/present
whereabouts could not be located as they shifted to Chennai and the
address was also unknown. The witnesses examined in the case also
did not state anything from which it can be inferred that they had any
personal knowledge about the occurrence. It thus, appears that there is

no sufficient evidence on record to bring home the guilt of the accused.

10.Thus, from the aforesaid evidence on record, no conclusion regarding
the guilt of the accused can be arrived at. Thus, the case of the
prosecution is bound to fail because of absolutely deficient evidence.
The accused is hence, not found guilty of any offence as
charged and as such, acquitted of the charge and set at liberty
forthwith.

11.Forward a copy of this judgment to the District Magistrate in compliance
of Sec.365 CrPC.

Page 4of5
Page [|5
Special (POCSO) Case No. 01 of 2017

Given under my hand and seal of this court on the 11%
day of March/2020.

Typed and Corrected by me:

Addl. Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur:: Tezpur.

APPENDIX
PROSECUTION WITNESSES:

PW1 (Dhaneswar @ Thaneswar Kumar)
PW2 (Paniram Gour)

PW3 (Pradip Kumar)

PW4 (Dr. Amarjit Kaur)

PW5 (Gokul Sonowal)

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS:

Ext-1: Advice Slip.

Ext-2: Requisition letter.
Ext-3: Sketch Map.

Ext-4: Chargesheet.
DEFENCE WITNESSES:
NIL.

DEFENCE EXHIBITS:
NIL.

Addl. Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur:: Tezpur.

Page 5o0f5
