IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present : Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 57 OF 2016
(G.R. Case No. 418 of 2016)
Borholla P.S. Case No. 69 of 2016

Committing Magistrate:-

Sri N.J. Sarma,

Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate,
Titabar Sub-Division,

Jorhat District

State of Assam

Versus

Sri Jems Bhangra,

Son of Late Estu Bhangra,

Resident of Chereli Gohain Gaon,

P.S. Borholla,

District-Jorhat. ..1. Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri M.R. Barooah,
Senior Advocate-cum-Special Public Prosecutor, Jorhat
For the Accused: Sri Subhir Ranjan Bharadwaj,
Learned State Defence Counsel, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 376 [1] OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 6 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM

SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 16-11-2016

Date of prosecution evidence: 29-11-2016; 05-01-2017; 20-01-2017;
& 17-02-2017

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 06-03-2017

Date of Argument : 09-03-2017 & 01-04-2017

Date of Judgment : 10-04-2017

SPECIAL CASE NO. 57 OF 2016
JUDGMENT

1). Thumbnail sketch of prosecution story, is that Borholla P.S. Case
No. 69/2016 under Section 376 of IPC read with Section 6 of The Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, was registered on the basis of an F.I.R.
lodged by Sri Jakariyas Topno, the father of the victim girl [hereinafter referred
to as ‘X’].

Sri Jakariyas Topno, who is the father of victim girl, lodged
ejahar before police stating inter-alia, that on 17/08/2016 at about 8.00 P.M.
while he was absent in his house, the accused came there and took his daughter
towards shop after telling the same to his wife. On the way, near an isolated
place, the above named accused, committed rape upon his daughter.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the Officer-in-charge,
Borholla P.S., the same was registered as Borholla P.S. Case No. 69/2016 under
Section 376 of IPC read with Section 6 of The Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was medically
examined by the doctor. The statement of the victim girl was recorded by the
learned Magistrate under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. Police on completion of
investigation filed charge-sheet in the case against the above named accused
Jems Bhangra u/S. 376 IPC as well as u/S. 6 of the Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 vide Charge-sheet No. 51/2016 dated 29-09-2016.

2). The learned Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Titabar Sub-Division,
Jorhat, transmitted the case to this Court for trial. Copy was furnished to the

accused in due course.

3). As accused was unable to engage any counsel to defend him so Sri
Subhir Ranjan Bharadwaj, was appointed as defence counsel, on State expenses,
to defend the accused.

Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submission of the accused and the

prosecution in this behalf, I found ground for presuming that the accused has

SPECIAL CASE NO. 57 OF 2016
committed offences under Section 376 [1] of IPC read with Section 6 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Accordingly, the charges
were framed, read over and explained to the accused, to which, the accused
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 06 [six] witnesses including the victim,
the informant, Medical Officer and the I.0. were examined on behalf of the
prosecution to prove the charge u/S. 376 [1] of IPC read with Section 6 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. the accused stated that he has been
falsely implicated in the case. The accused further stated that informant had
lodged false case against him through the victim. No witness was adduced by the

accused in his defence.

5). I have heard Sri Mukti Ranjan Barooah, learned Senior Advocate-
cum-Special Public Prosecutor for the State as well as Sri Subhir Ranjan
Bharadwaj, learned State Defence Counsel for the accused, who is facing trial for
commission of offence u/S. 376 [1] of IPC read with Section 6 of The Protection
of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on 17/08/2016 at about 07.00 P.M. at Gorajan Gaon
under Borholla P.S., the accused named above committed rape
on the victim girl, aged about nine years and below eighteen
years, and thereby committed an offence punishable under
Section 376 [1] of IPC?

2) Whether on the same day, time and place the accused named
above committed penetrative sexual assault upon the victim girl
aged above ten years but below eighteen years and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 6 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

SPECIAL CASE NO. 57 OF 2016
DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

7). PW-1 is the victim girl who during her deposition in Court stated that
she knows the accused from before the incident. On the relevant day she was
witnessing television in the house alongwith her elder brother. Her mother was
also present in the house at that time. At that time accused arrived at her house
and requested her to come out of the house in search of her father but she
refused. However, as per direction of her mother she came out of the house in
search of her father. The accused took her to a little distance and committed
rape upon her near a bamboo groove. She felt pain in her private part and cried
out of pain. Thereafter, the accused took her to her house. The accused also
stated to her not to divulge the incident to anyone. It is her further version that
the accused left her on the road near her residence and she proceeded towards
her residence. She then disclosed the incident to her mother. She also deposed
that she gave statement before the Magistrate and she marked Exhibit-1 to be
her statement and her signature thereon as Exhibit-1 [1] and Exhibit- 1[2]. It is
her further version that police also produced her before a doctor for medico-legal
check-up.

During cross-examination, she stated that her house is situated in
the basti. No one can hear anything if somebody shouts from the place of
occurrence as it is a bamboo groove. She further stated that there were some
houses near the place of occurrence. When she cried out of pain at that time two
persons came near the place of occurrence but she did not tell them anything.
She also denied all the defence suggestions put to her during cross-examination,
more particularly, that accused did not commit rape upon her on the date of

incident.

8). PW-2 is Smt. Kerolina Topno who is the mother of the victim. This
witness during her testimony divulged that on the relevant day the accused
arrived at her residence. Thereafter, the accused took her daughter out of the
house in search of her husband. Half an hour elapsed and her daughter returned
back home and went backside of the house for washing her feet. It is further

stated by this witness that her daughter narrated the incident to her in crying

SPECIAL CASE NO. 57 OF 2016
condition. She noticed the private part of her daughter in torn condition and also
noticed bleeding injury in her private part. She then took her daughter to the
house of accused and questioned him [accused] about the incident. The accused
confessed his guilt before her. Then she took her daughter before a doctor for
medico legal check-up at Titabar but not a single doctor was found at Titabar. On
the next day her daughter was examined by Dr. Marak. She then informed the
incident to her husband who in turn lodged ejahar before police. The victim gave
statement before the Magistrate and she was also produced before a doctor for
medico legal check-up.

During cross-examination, she denied that she did not state before
police that she witnessed bleeding injury on the private part of her daughter. It is
further disclosed by her that Dr. Marak gave them prescription which was handed
over to police by her. She did not disclose the fact to her guest Robin. But
aforesaid Robin came to know about the incident when she went to the house of
accused alongwith her daughter. She also denied that she wanted to borrow
money from the accused but as the accused refused to give her money hence

with the help of her daughter she had lodged false case against the accused.

9). Sri Jakriyas Topno [PW-3] who is the father of victim girl-cum-
informant of the case stated that he came to know about the incident from his
wife when he returned back home from the shop. He then lodged ejahar before
police which he exhibited as Exhibit-2 and his signature as Exhibit-2 [1]. Police
recorded their statement, took his daughter before a doctor for medico legal
check-up and thereafter before the learned Magistrate for recording statement
under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

During cross-examination, he denied that he did not state before
police that he also came to know about the incident from his daughter after the

same was narrated before him by his wife [PW-2].

10). Dr. Throphilus K. Marak [PW-4] stated that on 19/08/2016 he
was present in his chamber at Pragati Medical Store which is situated at Borholla
Chari-Ali. At that time one girl accompanied by her mother arrived at his

chamber. The mother of the victim girl stated before him that the victim had

SPECIAL CASE NO. 57 OF 2016
been sexually exploited. He medically examined the victim and advised both of
them to go to government hospital.
During cross-examination, he stated that he did not physically

examine the victim. he advised both of them to visit government hospital.

11). Sri Hari Kanta Tamuli [PW-5] is the I.0. of the case. On 20/08/2016
he was entrusted with the investigation of the case by the then Officer-in-charge,
Borholla P.S. after ejahar was lodged by the informant at Borholla P.S. He
exhibited the ejahar as Exhibit-2 and the signature of the then Officer-in-charge,
Borholla P.S. as Exhibit-2 [1]. He further stated that he examined the victim as
well as informant of the case. Victim girl was medico legally examined by a
doctor. She was also produced before the learned Magistrate for recording
statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. During investigation, he prepared Sketch
Map of the place of occurrence with index vide Exhibit-3 wherein Exhibit-3 [1] is
his signature. He also arrested the accused on the next day. After collecting the
medico legal report of the victim from the concerned doctor as well as her
statement from the learned Magistrate, he filed charge-sheet against the accused
under the relevant provisions of law. He confirmed that Smt. Kerolina Topno
[PW-2] did not state before him that she witnessed blood coming out from the
private part of the victim. He further confirmed that Jekriyas Topno [PW-3] did
not state before him that he came to know about the incident from the mother of
the victim.

Defence declined to cross-examine the I.O.

12). Dr. Amrita Nath [PW-6] who was the then Medical Officer on
duty, Jorhat Medical College & Hospital examined the victim girl on 23/08/2016
and opined that the victim is between [09] nine years to [12] twelve years;
evidence of recent sexual intercourse was not detected on her person and further
that there was no evidence of violence/injury mark detected on her person at the
time of examination. This witness exhibited her medical report [Exhibit-4] and
her signatures thereon as Exhibit-4 [1] to Exhibit-4 [3].

The doctor during cross-examination stated that as per version of

the victim she has narrated the incident in her report.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 57 OF 2016
13). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen that the
whole case rests upon the testimony of the victim [PW-1] who is the daughter of
accused and her mother [PW-2]. The victim during her evidence as well as cross-
examination categorically stated that she was raped by the accused on the
relevant day. Moreover, the cross-examination of Smt. Kerolina Topno [PW-2],
mother of the victim, shows that she stated before police that she witnessed

bleeding injury on the private part of her daughter.

14). The accused during his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. simply
stated that he had been falsely implicated by the informant [PW-3]. From other
material point, all the mitigating circumstances were put to him but he could not
explain the circumstances but remained mum. False explanation or no
explanation by the accused, provides the missing link, if any, in the prosecution
case. [Relied on State of Maharashtra-versus-Suresh, reported in
(2000) 1 SCC 471 (Para No-27)]

15). It is an admitted fact that the investigating officer of the instant
case has not seized any birth certificate or school certificate of the victim from
her parent to show that the victim is a child/minor less than 18 [eighteen] years

as on the date of commission of offence.

16). In the present case, since date of birth certificate or matriculation
certificate from the school or birth certificate are not available, the prosecution
has relied upon Exhibit-4, the report of doctor Amrita Nath [PW-6], according to
which, the age of the victim is between 09 years to 12 years. There is nothing on
record to create a doubt about the bone/medical age of the victim child as
determined by the Medical Officer. The doctor was not even cross-examined by
the defence to show that the opinion regarding age of the victim was not a
conclusive report. So, as per Section 2 (d) of The Protection of Children From
Sexual offences Act, 2012, the victim is found to be below 18 [eighteen] years of
age at the time of incident. In this connection, it is also seen that victim in her
statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. (recorded on 21/08/2016) stated her age to

be 9 2 years and she also declared her age to be ten years at the time of

SPECIAL CASE NO. 57 OF 2016
deposing evidence in this court on 29/11/2016. So, there is consistency in her
statement regarding her age. Hence, the age of the victim can be safely assumed

to be below eighteen years at the time of incident.

17). It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole evidence of a
child witness is permissible, if such witness is found competent to testify and the
court, after careful scrutiny of its evidence.

In the case of Datttu Ramrao Sakhare-versus-State of
Maharashtra, reported in [1997] 5 SCC 341, the Hon’ble Apex Court has held
that — “A child witness if found competent to depose to the facts and
reliable one, such evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other
words, even in the absence of oath, the evidence of a child witness can
be considered under Section 118 of Indian Evidence Act, provided that
such witness is able to understand the questions and able to give
rational answers thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility
thereof would depend upon the circumstance of each case. The only
precaution which the court should bear in mind while assessing the
evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be reliable one and
his/her demeanor must be like any other competent witness and there

is no likelihood of being tutored”.

18). The ration as laid down in the above case is that the testimony of a
child witness is attributed the same kind of credibility that it attached to the
statement of any other witness if the testimony is consistent.

In the present case, the victim has been consistent on the material
particulars with regard to the incident which is supported by her mother [PW-2]
as well as other witnesses. Moreover, victim [PW-1] remained consistent in her
statement recorded by the I.O. under Section 161 Cr.P.C. as well as statement
recorded by the learned Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C. that it was accused

who committed penetrative sexual assault upon her at the time of incident.

19). In the light of the evidence of the victim [PW-1] as well as her

mother [PW-2], this court can presume under Section 29 of The Prevention of

SPECIAL CASE NO. 57 OF 2016
Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 that it was the accused, who had
committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon the victim. It was for the
accused to rebut the presumption that he had not committed the offence by
proving to the contrary. No evidence was led by the accused in his defence to
prove his innocence. On the contrary, the defence put forwarded by the accused

in this case is not consistent and therefore, same is required to be disbelieved.

20). The accused was charged under Section 376 [1] IPC. From the facts
and circumstances as narrated hereinabove I am of the constrained view that
accused committed rape upon the victim girl on the date of incident. Hence
accused is convicted under the aforesaid section of law in the instant case.

However, in view of the above discussion, I am of the considered
view that prosecution has been able to prove that accused committed penetrative
sexual assault on the victim which is punishable under Section 6 of The
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012. Hence the accused is
found guilty for committing offence under Section 5 [m] read with Section 5 [n]
of POCSO Act, 2012 as victim happened to be below 12 years of age at the time
of incident and accused had domestic relationship with the parent of the child.

Thus the act/offence committed by the accused constitutes an
offence punishable under the Prevention of Children from Sexual Offences Act,
2012 as well as under Section 376 of Indian Penal Code.

In this connection it is pertinent to mention herein that Section 42

of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 provides and read
as follows:
Section-42. Alternate punishment-Where an act or omission constitutes an
offence punishable under this Act and also under Sections 166A, 354A, 3548,
354C, 354D, 370, 370A, 375, 376, 376A, 376C, 376D, 376E or Section 509 of the
Indian Penal Code (45 of 1860), then, notwithstanding anything contained in any
law for the time being in force, the offender found guilty of such offence shall be
liable to punishment under this Act or under the Indian Penal Code as provides
for punishment which is greater in degree.

In view of the above, I find it expedient to convict the accused for

the offence committed under Section 5 [m] & 5 [n] of The Protection of Children

SPECIAL CASE NO. 57 OF 2016
10

from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 which is punishable under Section 6 of the
POCSO Act.

21). Accused Sri Jems Bhangra is heard on the point of sentence. The
accused has submitted that he has his wife and a minor child and there is none
to look after them in his absence. He further submitted that if he is sent to jail
hajot, then his family will face great financial hardship as he is the sole bread
earner of his family. Further, he was not convicted for any criminal case, prior to

this case. Hence, the accused prayed for leniency.

22). I have heard Sri Subhir Ranjan Bharadwaj, learned State Defence
Counsel for the accused as well as Sri Mukti Ranjan Barooah, learned Senior
Advocate-cum-Special Public Prosecutor, Jorhat.

Considering the nature of offence the accused Sri Jems Bhangra
is sentenced to undergo RIGOROUS IMPRISONMENT for 10 [ten] years and
also to pay a fine of Rs. 15,000/- [Rupees Fifteen Thousand], in-default of
payment of fine, to suffer further RIGOROUS IMPRISONMENT for 6 [six]
months under Section 6 of The Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.

The period of detention already undergone by the accused during
investigation and trial shall be set off from the period of imprisonment imposed
on him under Section 428 Cr.P.C.

23). Now coming to the aspect of compensation to the victim, who is a
minor girl, the Hon’ble Apex Court has time to time observed that subordinate
courts trying the offences of sexual assault have the jurisdiction to award the
compensation to the victims being an offence against the basic human right and
violative of Article 21 of the Indian Constitution.

In the case of Bodhisattwa Gautam -—versus- Subhra
Chakraborty, AIR 1996 SC 922, it has been held by the Hon'ble Apex Court
that the jurisdiction to pay compensation has to be treated to be a part of the

overall jurisdiction of the courts trying the offences of rape, which is an offence

SPECIAL CASE NO. 57 OF 2016

10
11

against basic human rights as also the Fundamental Rights of Personal Liberty &
Life.

24). Therefore, in order to provide restorative and compensatory justice
to the victim, I hereby direct the learned Secretary, District Legal Services
Authority, Jorhat, to assess and grant adequate compensation to the victim
[PW-1]. The said compensation amount shall be used by the parent of the victim

for her welfare and rehabilitation.

25). Free copy of the judgment be furnished to the accused immediately.
Another copy of this judgment be sent to the learned District

Magistrate, Jorhat, as well as to the learned Secretary, D.L.S.A., Jorhat, for

information.
26). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 10th day of April
2017.

Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:-12

SPECIAL CASE NO. 57 OF 2016

11
12

ANNEXURES:-
PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

 

 

PW-1 Victim girl.

PW-2 Smt. Kerolina Topno, mother of the victim girl.

PW-3 Sri Jekriyas Topno, father of the victim girl-cum-
informant of the case.

PW-4 Dr. Theophilus K. Morak.

PW-5 Sri Hari Kanta Tamuli, I.0. of the case.

PW-6 Dr. Amrita Nath, who examined the victim.

 

 

COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

|Exhibit-1=—_—(| Statement of the victim under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
Exhibit-2000 | Ejahar

 

|Exhibit-3 = —_—s«(|: Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index

Exhibit-4 Medico legal report of victim

 

MATERIAL EXHIBIT:- NIL.

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO. 57 OF 2016 1 2
SPECIAL CASE NO. 57 OF 2016

13

13
