(1)

In_ The Court of Special Judge,
Cachar at_ Silchar.

Present: Mr. D.Ullah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

Spl(POCSO) Case No. 30 / 2017
u/s 376 IPC r/w sec. 6 of the POCSO Act

The State of Assam
-Versus-
Sankar Malakar

eneeeeeeh accused person.

Dates of evidence : 11.1.18; 31.5.18; 13.7.18; 12.9.18 &

22.5.19
Date of argument : 27.1.2020
Date of judgment =: 15.2.2020
Appearance:-
For the Prosecution : Miss. B. Acharjee, Id. Spl.P.P.
For the Defence : Mr. S. Chakraborty. Ld. Advocate
JUDGMENT
1. The brief facts of the prosecution case is that the informant

— Michrilal Nunia had lodged an ejahar dated 6.7.17 to the effect
that before 6 months ago ( i.e. prior to lodging of the ejahar) the

ejahar named accused person had entered into the house of the
(2)

informant and raped his minor daughter i.e. the victim aged about
17 years (name witheld) when she was alone in the house. It is also
stated that as a result, the victim girl carries about five months
pregnancy.

2. Accordingly, on receipt of the ejehar, police registered a case
being Udharbond P.S Case No.138/176 u/s 448 of the IPC r/w sec.4
of the POCSO Act. Thereafter, on completion of investigation police
submitted charge sheet against the present accused person u/s
448 of the IPC r/w sec.6 of the POCSO Act and sent up the accused

person to face trial.

3. Thereafter, on 19.7.17 this court received the case record
and registered the same as a Spl(POCSO) case. The accused person
namely, Sankar Malakar has appeared before this court and on
19.9.17 after hearing the prosecution and the defence counsel, my
Ld. predecessor was pleased to frame charge u/s 4 of the POCSO
Act against the accused person and the particular of the charges
were read over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded

not guilty and stood to face the trial.

4. Thereafter, the trial of this case was commenced , during
which the prosecution examined as many as 9(nine) witnesses
which include the informant, the victim, the Medical Officer and the
Investigating Officer of the case. After completion of Prosecution
evidence , the statement of the accused person u/s 313 of the
Cr.P.C is recorded during which the accused person denied the
allegations and also declined to adduce any evidence in his support.
5. It is pertinent to mention here that when the case was at
argument stage, the Ld. Spl.P.P has filed a petition with a prayer for

alteration of charges for the offence u/s 376 IPC r/w sec.6 of the
(3)

POCSO Act, in view of the fact that the victim girl got pregnant due
to the offence in question. Thereafter, on 18.1.2020 after hearing
both sides this court altered the charges u/s 376 IPC r/w sec.6 of
the POCSO Act and the particular of the charges were read over
and explained to him to which the accused pleaded not guilty and
stood to face the trial. The Ld. Counsel for the accused person has
declined to further cross-examine the P.Ws, already examined, in

view of alteration of charges.

6. Heard the Ld. Spl.P.P and also the Ld. Counsel appearing for

the accused person .

During argument, the Ld. Spl.P.P has submitted that the
prosecution has able to prove the offence against the accused
person beyond all reasonable doubt. It is further submitted that the
victim is a minor aged between 16 years and 18 years and it is
proved beyond doubt that she was made pregnant by the accused
and she gave birth of a female child . Under the above materials,
the Ld. Spl.P.P has prayed to punish the accused accordingly. On
the other hand, the Ld. Defence counsel has submitted that the
victim could not able to say the date and time of occurrence and
the statement of the victim regarding the time of the occurrence is
different on different occasions and the same is not believable at
all. It is further submitted that the Investigating Agency has also
failed to conduct any DNA test in order to confirm the involvement
of the accused in respect of birth of the child of the victim . The Ld.
Counsel for the accused has further submitted that it is
unbelievable proposition that till 5-6 months of pregnancy nobody
could notice the victim in respect of her pregnancy. Under the
above circumstances the Ld. Defence counsel has submitted that

the version of the victim and the other witnesses supporting her are
(4)

not therefore believable. In this context he has relied upon a
decision of Hon'ble Sikkim High Court in State of Sikkim Vs
Girjaman Rai @ Kami and another reported in 2019 Cri.L.J 4247. In
respect of failure of the Investigating Agency to conduct DNA test
for paternity of the child the defence counsel has relied on a
decision of Culcutta High Court in Suparna Mukherjee Vs State of
West Bengal reported in 2017 Cri.L.J 3098.

7. Point for determination:-

(i)Whether on one day at the time of Durga Puja in the year
2006 and on subsequent five occasions at village Sukachera under
Udharbond P.S the accused person committed rape upon the
victim , as alleged ?

(ii)Whether the accused person committed aggravated

penetrative sexual assault upon the victim, as alleged ?
Discussion , Decision and Reasons Thereof :-

8. In this case the prosecution side examined as many as

9(nine) witnesses to prove the case.

9. The P.W.1 i.e. the victim of the case and she testified that
about one and half years back in the month of Ashwin in Bengali
Calender , in one day at about 4 pm the accused came to their
house as usual and finding none except her in the house he took
her in a nearby hillock and committed rape on her. She further
stated that the accused continued such type of relation for about
subsequent 7/8 months. She added that she became pregnant and
gave birth of a female child about one month back. She further
stated that her father lodged an ejahar about five months after the
first occurrence . The P.W.1 also stated that she was medically

examined and she gave her statement before the Magistrate. The
(5)

victim P.W.1 further added that the accused has got four sons and
two daughters and three sons are married and two daughters are

married .

During her cross-examination the P.W.1 stated that the
accused used to keep his sown timber in their house and he
sometime helped her father with money. She also stated that her
paternal aunt’s house is near to their house’ and in the
surroundings of their house there are many houses of their relative.
The P.W.1 also stated prior to the alleged incident she visited
Bharambaba mela and from there she visited her maternal uncle’s
house at Sildubi and remained there for three days. The P.W.1
denied a suggestion that as her father took loan from the accused
and her father when failed to return the same collusively filed this
case with false allegation. This witness also denied the suggestion

that she got pregnant by some other person.

10. The P.W.2 is Mishri Lal Nunia, the informant of the case and
he stated that he used to carry business of collection of bamboo
etc. with the accused and they had financial transaction between
them. The P.W.2 further stated that the accused visited their house.
The P.W.2 also stated that he along with his son used to go out for
work keeping the victim alone in the house as his younger daughter
used to go to school. The P.W.2 also stated that after five months
of the alleged incident when he noticed pregnancy of the victim
and accordingly he made query and came to know that accused
caused pregnancy and then he lodged FIR, which is exhibited as
Ext.1. The P.W.2 further stated that the age of the accused is

around 85 years.

During cross-examination the P.W.2 stated that the accused

used to keep sown wood to his homestead. The P.W.2 further
(6)

stated that the victim reported him that the accused giving Rs.500/-
to her caught hold of her and took into the jungle and committed
rape on her and only after five months of pregnancy he could
realize the same . The P.W.2 admitted during his cross-examination
that his relatives used to visit his house, but none of them could
notice the pregnancy of the victim. The P.W.2 denied a suggestion
that he took loan from the accused and he could not repay the
Same and on his demand they collusively prepared a concocted
case . The P.W.2 also denied a suggestion that the accused did not
commit rape and the accused is not responsible for the pregnancy.
The P.W.2 also denied a suggestion that his daughter had illicit
relation with other boys and when she became pregnant implicated,

the accused in this case for getting relief from loan amount.

11. The P.W.3 Sita Nunia is a reported witness and he stated
that when they asked the victim about what has happened to her
then she told them that Sankar Malakar i.e. accused has made her

pregnant.

During his cross-examination he stated that he came to
know about the occurrence when the victim was taken from

medical college after her examination.

12. The P.W.4 Moyna Nunia stated that the informant and the
victim is her neighbours and seeing larger abdomen of victim , she
asked her how it has happened then she told her that accused has
made her pregnant . She also stated that at first accused denied,
but while the victim caught her by his neck then accused confessed
his liability of making the victim pregnant. The P.W.4 also stated
that after 3/4 months of her knowledge about the occurrence the

victim delivered a female child and the child is still alive.
(7)

13. During her cross-examination the P.W.4 stated that he came
to know about the occurrence when there was an injury on the leg
of victim and she went to a doctor of Madhura and there her
pregnancy was detected by doctor. The P.W.3 also stated that one
week ago of filing of this case by the informant the victim went to
the doctor of Madhura and prior to the visit of doctor she did not
know anything about her pregnancy . The P.W.4 also stated that
accused Sankar is doing timber business and father of the victim
works under the accused . He also stated that accused used to pay
money to the father of the victim . The P.W.4 specifically admitted
that she did not see anything about the occurrence. The P.W.4 also

admitted that the victim is her relative.

14. The P.W.5 Tarabati Nunia @ Tara Moni Nunia has stated
that victim’s mother has died long back and while the victim was
pregnant for about 4 months she seeing her larger abdomen and
asked her who has done this. The P.W.5 also stated that then she
took her (victim) to doctor at Madhura who detected her pregnancy
for four months and then she took her to her (P.W’s) house and
insisted her to tell the name who has done her pregnancy then the
victim told them that the accused Sankar Malakar had done her
pregnancy doing relation with her about from 5/6 months back. The
P.W.5 also stated that while they asked the accused about the
occurrence, at first he denied but while the victim caught his neck
by her hand, the accused Sankar Malakar admitted his guilt in their
presence that he had made the victim pregnant . The P.W.5 also
stated that after about 5 months victim delivered a female child

who is still alive .

15. The P.W.5 during her cross-examination stated that after

coming from doctor of Madhura with victim this case was filed by
(8)

the informant. She admitted that prior to taking the victim to doctor
of Madhura she did not know anything. The P.W.5 also denied
several suggestions that were put to her by the Ld. Counsel for the

defence.

16. The P.W.6 - Reba Chanda stated in her evidence that in the
last Bengali month of Magh, the occurrence took place and at the
time of occurrence and still now she is the Secretary of local Mahila
committee of Nogor Colony inclding Nogor Tea Estate. The P.W.6
also stated that the informant Mishrilal Nunia and one Shyambehari
Nunia informed her after the victim was recovered and taken to
Udharbond P.S that the accused Sankar Malakar after doing physical
relation with the victim made her pregnant . Thus, her evidence

shows that she is a reported witness.

During her cross-examination she denied several suggestions

that were put to her by the Ld. Counsel for the defence.

17. The P.W.7 — Kolabati Nunia has stated that about one year
back the occurrence took place . She stated that she knew the
accused person used to to go to the house of the informant before
the occurrence regularly . She stated that her house is situated in a
tilla which is intervened by another tilla from the house of the

informant.

During her cross-examination the P.W.7 stated that her
house is situated in a tilla and thereafter paddy land and then in
another tilla there is the house of the informant. She stated that on
her tilla, sufficient trees are there and from her house the house of

the victim is not visible.

18. The P.W.8 — Dr. Monalisa Dev, the Medical Officer , who
examined the victim. The P.W.8 stated that on 6.7.17, she
(9)

examined the victim on police requisition and on the basis of
physical examination, laboratory and Radiological investigations
done on the victim, the P.W.8 opined that — (1) age of the
individual was above 16 years and below 18 years (2)Evidence of
recent sexual penetration not detected as on the date of
examination , (3) injury marks not detected on her person or
genitals except old hymenal tears and (4) The individual carries
pregnancy with a single live intrauterine gestation in changing lie at
18 weeks 3 days + - one week. The Medical report is brought on

record as the Ext.2.

19. The P.W.9- Ahmed Hussain Mazumder , the I.O of the case
testified that on 6.7.17 he was posted at Udharbond P.S and at that
time , Swapan Kumar Dey was the Officer in Charge of Udharbond
P.S. who received one FIR, Ext. 1 and registered the same vide
Udharbond P.S. Case No. 138/2017 on 06.07.2017 U/S 448 IPC R/
W Section 4 of POCSO Act. and entrusted the same to him for
investigation. The P.W.9 stated that Misri Lal Nunia, the father of
the victim girl, brought the victim to the PS and he recorded the
statement of informant and the victim U/S 161 Cr.P.C. The P.W.9
also stated that on the same date, victim was sent to SMCH, Silchar
for her medical examination and it was done there on the same
date. The P.W.9 also stated that during investigation, he visited the
PO, drew sketch map , which is Ext. 3 , recorded statement of other
witnesses and arrested the accused on 07.07.2017 and forwarded
him to Hon’ble Court. The P.W.9 also stated that after completion
of investigation, he submitted charge sheet u/s 448 IPC r/w Section
6 of POCSO Act, which is brought on record as the Ext. 5

During cross-examination the P.W.9 stated that there is

no mention of date of occurrence in Ext. 1, the FIR. The P.W.9 also
(10)

stated that in Ext. 3, sketch map, he indicated the PO as one house
and said house consists of three rooms and he also mentioned two
houses by indication “E” and “F”. “E” is the house under
construction and “F” is kitchen. The P.W.9 stated that towards east
of the PO, there is Madura river which he indicated as “B”. The
P.W.9 also stated that on 06.07.2017 at about 7.20 PM he sent the
victim to SMCH, Silchar for her examination and at about 10 P.M.
she returned from SMCH, Silchar and then kept in Ujala and on the
next day i.e. on 07.07.2017, the victim was brought to Court for
recording her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. The P.W.9 further stated
during his cross-examination that on 11.07.2017 the statement of
the victim U/S 164 Cr.P.C was recorded in Court. The P.W.9
admitted during his cross-examination that as there is no other
house he has not mentioned any other house in Ext. 3. The P.W.9
also stated that he had not mentioned the distance of the house of
the accused from the place of occurrence and there are houses of
other persons near the house of the accused. The P.W.9 admitted
that the houses of all witnesses are within a range of one kilometer
from the PO and on the eastern bank of river Madura. The P.W.9
also stated that he had not mentioned the age of the accused as
85 years. The P.W.9 during his cross-examination stated that the
PW 1 i.e. the victim did not state to him that on the date of
occurrence she was alone in her house and accused took her to a
nearby hillock and raped her and for about subsequent 6/7 months
he continued such activities. The P.W.9 also stated during his cross-
examination that the PW 3 Sita Nunia did not state to him that after
the occurrence she along with the victim went to the house of
Shyam Bihari Nunia and accordingly she herself, Moyna Nunia, Tara

Nunia, Shalanti Orang went to the house of Shyam Bihari Nunia.
(11)

The P.W.9 also stated that this witness has also not stated to him
that she also went with him to the house of Shyam Bihari Nunia and
on being asked the victim stated that accused Shankar Malakar
made her pregnant. The P.W.9 also stated that the PW 5 Tarabati
Nunia @ Taramoni Nunia did not state to him that seeing larger
abdomen of victim she took the victim to a doctor of Madura and
there her pregnancy was detected by doctor and that she did not
state to him that after returning from Madura when she took the
victim to her house and insisted to tell the name of the person who
caused her pregnancy, then the victim told that the accused made
her pregnancy by establishing physical relation for about 5/6
months. The P.W.9 further stated during his cross-examination that
the PW 6 Reba Chanda did not state to him that the occurrence
took place in the Bengali month of “Maagh”. The P.W.9 also stated
that she also did not state to him that one Misri Lal Nunia and
Shyam Bihari Nunia informed her that the victim girl was recovered
and she was taken to Udharbond P.S. She also did not state to him
that one Misri Lal Nunia and Shyam Bihari Nunia told her that
accused Shankar Malakar after doing physical relation with her
made her pregnant. The P.W.9 also stated that the P.W.6 -Reba
Chanda did not state to him that when she was informed about the
occurrence at that time the victim was eight months pregnant. The
P.W.9 further stated during his cross-examination that the PW 7
Kolabati Nunia did not state to him that the occurrence took place
about one year ago and also did not state to him that the accused
used to visit the house of the victim regularly.

20. Appreciating the materials on record, it is found that the
victim has specifically stated in her evidence that taking advantage

of absence of other members in their house the accused came and
(12)

took her to a nearby hillock and committed rape upon her. She has
further stated that the accused continued such type of relation for
about subsequent 7/8 months for which she became pregnant and
gave birth of a female child . So far as the pregnancy of the victim
is concerned, the P.W.2, the informant being the father of the
victim , the P.W.3 — Sita Nunia, the P.W.4- Moyna Nunia , the
P.W.5- Tarabati Nunia @ Tara Moni Nunia and the P.W.6- Reba
Chanda have supported the victim and the defence has not
disputed or denied that the victim got pregnant and even not
suggested that she has not delivered any child resulting to the
pregnancy .

21. The P.W.8, the Medical Officer who had examined the victim
on police requisition opined that the age of the individual was above
16 years and below 18 years and also opined that the individual
carries pregnancy with a single live intrauterine gestation in
changing lie at 18 weeks 3 days + - one week. Therefore, upon
consideration of evidence of all the aforesaid P.Ws including the
evidence of the doctor it is proved that the victim got pregnant and
ultimately delivered a female child . The case of the defence _is of
total denial . The facts and circumstances of commission of the
offence resulting to pregnancy of the victim is that sexual
intercourse took place in absence of the family members of the
victim and as such there is no question of seeking an eye witness
of such offence.

22. Ina case for offence u/s 376 IPC r/w sec.6 of the POCSO
Act, the medical evidence and the other circumstantial evidence
supporting the evidence of the victim will certainly play an

important role .
(13)

23. Under the above context, if we scrutinize the prosecution
evidence, we will find that the P.W.2, the informant has stated in
his evidence that he alongwith his son used to go out for work
keeping the victim alone in the house. This witness has also stated
that after about five months of the alleged occurrence, when they
noticed pregnancy of the victim, they made query and came to
know that the accused caused pregnancy to the victim and
thereafter he lodged the FIR(Ext.1). He has also confirmed in the
cross-examination that the accused by giving Rs.500/- to the victim
caught hold of her and took her in the jungle and committed rape

on her .

24. The defence case is that this witness i.e. the P.W.2 took loan
from the accused and he could not able to repay the same and as
the accused demanded for repayment of the said amount then they
collusively prepared the instant concocted case. But, except putting
such a suggestion , which is denied by the P.W.2, the defence has
failed to prove their contention that the P.W.2 lodged this false case
due to the aforesaid reason. The defence has also put another
suggestion to this witness i.e. the P.W.2 that his daughter i.e the
victim, had illicit relation with other boy and when she got pregnant
they implicated the accused falsely for getting relief from the loan
amount, which the P.W.2 took from the accused. This suggestions

is specifically denied by the P.W.2.
25. The P.W.3- Sita Nunia, the P.W.4-Moyna Nunia are the

reported witnesses who have stated that the victim told them that
the accused made her pregnant. The P.W.4 has also stated that
after 3/4 months of her knowledge about the occurrence, the victim
delivered a female child and the child is still alive. The defence

during cross-examination to these witnesses i.e. the P.W.2, the
(14)

P.W.3 and the P.W.4 could not able to rebut the incriminating
portion of evidence except putting some suggestions , which these

witnesses denied.

26. The P.W.5- Tarabati Nunia @ Tara Moni Nunia_ has also
stated in her evidence that seeing her larger abdomen she asked
the victim as to who had done this and also took the victim to a
doctor at Madhura who detected her pregnancy for 4 months and
then she took her to her house and insisted her to tell the name
who has done her pregnancy and then victim told them that
accused Sankar Malakar has made her pregnant doing physical
relation with her about from 5/6 months back. This witness also
stated that they asked the accused Sankar Malakar about the
occurrence, at first he denied but while the victim caught his neck
by her hand, the accused admitted his guilt that he made the victim
pregnant. This witness also stated that after about 5 months the
victim delivered a female child who is still alive. Similarly, the
P.W.6- Reba Chanda is also a reported witness who came to know
from the informant that the victim was made pregnant by the

accused.

27. The P.W.9 ,the Investigating Officer, in his evidence has
narrated various stages of investigation conducted by him. During
his cross-examination he has stated that in the sketch map , the
Ext. 3, he indicated the PO as one house and said house consists of
three rooms and he also mentioned two houses by indication “E”
and “F. This P.W.9 further stated in his cross-examination that he
had not mentioned the distance of the house of the accused from
the place of occurrence and there are houses of other persons near
the house of the accused. The P.W.9, the I.O during his cross-

examination has stated that the victim did not state to him that on
(15)

the date of occurrence she was alone in her house and accused
took her to a nearby hillock and raped her and for about
subsequent 6/7 months he continued such activities. The P.W.9
further stated that the P.W.5 did not state to him that seeing larger
abdomen of victim she took the victim to a doctor of Madura and
there her pregnancy was detected by doctor and that she did not
state to him that after returning from Madura when she took the
victim to her house and insisted to tell the name of the person who
caused her pregnancy, then the victim told that the accused made

her pregnant by establishing physical relation for about 5/6 months.

28. The instant case is for offence u/s 376 IPC r/w sec.6 of the
POCSO Act. Section 6 of the POCSO Act is the provision for
punishment for aggravated penetrative sexual assault which is
defined in Section 5 of the said Act. As per Section 29 of the Act-
where a person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or
attempting to commit any offence under sections 3,5,7 and section
9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume, that such person has
committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the

case may be unless the contrary is proved.

29. In the instant case , the victim has specifically stated in her
evidence that the accused had established sexual relation with her
resulting to her pregnancy and ultimately the victim has delivered
a female child . The said averments were reported to other P.Ws
who have supported and deposed before the Court. The doctor i.e.
the P.W.8 has also opined the age of the victim was above 16 years
and below 18 years and also opined in respect of existence of
pregnancy of the victim . The defence by way of cross-examining
the victim and other P.Ws could not able to rebut the incriminating

portion of the evidence against the accused. The evidence of the
(16)

victim duly supported by the medical evidence as well as
corroboration from the reported witnesses to establish a strong
prosecution case against the accused and under such
circumstances, I am of the opinion that section 29 of the Act will
come into play and the burden lies upon the accused to prove the
contrary . Although, the accused has suggested the victim as well
as the informant that due to existence of previous loan with him
i.e. accused , the instant case is falsely lodged by the P.W.2 against
the accused but except mere putting suggestions the accused side
has failed to prove such situation in order to disprove the
averments and allegations put-forwarded by the victim as well as

the informant duly supported by other P.Ws.
30. Ihave also gone through the decision of Hon’ble Sikkim High

Court in State of Sikkim Vs Girjaman Rai @ Kami and another
reported in 2019 Cri.L.J 4247, I am of the opinion that the fact
of the said case is totally different from that of the instant case and
in the instant case the victim has specifically and categorically
implicated the accused in respect of making her pregnant by the
accused as a result of which she gave birth to a female child . We
have already discussed that the other P.Ws have also supported the
victim stating inter alia, that the victim had reported them that the

accused had made her pregnant.

31. | Under the above context , I humbly opined that the above
decision is not applicable in this case and the accused is not
entitled any benefit out of the same.

32. I have also gone through the decision of Culcutta High
Court in Suparna Mukherjee Vs State of West Bengal
reported in 2017 Cri.L.J 3098. In the said decision it was opined

that the DNA test cannot be ordered as a matter of routine. When
(17)

Section 112 of the Evidence Act was enacted at that time there was
not even any contemplation of the legislature to make a provision
regarding DNA test which is virtually outcome of advancement of
modern science . It was also opined that if DNA test is done it will
be clear if the private Opposite Party is the biological father or not.
At the same time it has to be kept in mind that a person cannot be

compelled to undergo DNA test.

33. After going through the above decision, it is found that
under the context of the said case the court had ordered DNA test
and directed the Investigating Agency to approach the accused to
undergo DNA test and if he refuses to undergo DNA test and in

that case trial court shall be at liberty to draw adverse presumption.

34. In the instant case , it is a fact that DNA test is not done but
it is not mandatory that in all cases of offences like section 376 IPC
or section 6 of the POCSO Act the DNA test is required to be
conducted. The case record reveals that even during the trial also
the defence side has _ also not claimed DNA test to rebut the

presumption of section 29 of the POCSO Act.

35. | Upon consideration of the factual matrix of the instant case, I
am of the opinion that the accused cannot get the benefit out of
the aforesaid decisions and the available evidence on record cannot
be thrown away only on the ground that DNA test has not been

done.

36. The accused side has also taken a defence while cross-
examining the victim suggesting her that prior to the occurrence
while she visited her maternal uncle’s house at Sildubi she had
mixed up with some boys and thereafter her father and brother

brought her back . The said suggestion was denied by the victim.
(18)

Mere putting such suggestion cannot substantiate that the victim
got pregnant through other boys at Sildubi . The defence side has
failed to produce any positive evidence or also failed to bring
through cross-examination of the victim or other P.Ws that the

victim got pregnant through other person other than the accused.

37. Under the above situation, I do not find any reason to
disbelieve the evidence of the victim that she was made pregnant

by the accused.

38. |The ground taken by the defence side that the victim had
concocted the story against the accused due to previous existence
of loan with her father i.e. the P.W.2 cannot be believable only on
the basis of mere suggestion of the accused, which the victim

denied.

39. In view of the above discussion , I hold that the prosecution
has able to prove the offence u/s 376 IPC r/w sec. 6 of the POCSO
Act against the accused person beyond all reasonable doubt and
as such the accused person is liable to be convicted and accordingly
he is convicted for the offence u/s 376 IPC r/w sec. 6 of the POCSO
Act.

40. Upon consideration of the nature and gravity of the offence, I
am of the opinion that the accused person is not entitled to get the
benefit of the Probation of Offenders Act and accordingly, I declined
to provide him any benefit under the Probation of Offenders Act.

41. Heard the accused /convict namely, Sankar Malakar on the
point of sentence u/s 376 IPC r/w sec.6 of the POCSO Act to which
he has stated that he is presently 85 years of age, having his wife

and children in his family and he has prayed for mercy. In respect
(19)

of compensation the accused/convict has stated that he has no

income of his own presently.

42. Having considered the provisions of section 71 of the IPC and
sec. 42 of the POCSO Act under the present context of the case, I
am of the opinion that punishment u/s 6 of the POCSO Act will be
appropriate in the instant case . Accordingly, I propose to punish
the accused for offence u/s 6 of the POCSO Act instead of punishing
him u/s 376 of the IPC.

43. Upon consideration of the nature and gravity of the offence
and also upon consideration of the submission of the accused
during sentence hearing , his mitigating circumstances like his age,
the convict - Sankar Malakar is sentenced to undergo imprisonment
of R.I for a period of 10 (ten) years and to pay a fine of Rs.10,000/-
(Rupees ten thousand ) only i/d S.I for 2(two) months for the
offence u/s 6 of the POCSO Act. The fine amount, if realized, be
paid to the victim as compensation u/s 357 of the Cr.P.C. The
period of detention already undergone by the accused/convict
during trial and investigation be set off from the period of sentence

as per section 428 of the Cr.P.C.

44. As the victim got pregnant and gave birth to a female child
and suffered loss as a result of the crime and hence she requires
rehabilitation and as such , I am of the opinion that she is entitled
to compensation u/s 357(A) of the Cr.P.C and accordingly I
recommand for adequate compensation as per section 357(A)(1)
of the Cr.P.C.

45. The District Legal Service Authority, Cachar, Silchar shall
decide the quantum of compensation as per section 357(A)(2) of

the Cr.P.C and shall pay the same to the victim.
(20)

46. A free copy of this judgment shall be furnished to the convict
- Sankar Malakar u/s 363 of the Cr.P.C.

47. Acopy of this judgment along with other relevant papers like
copy of the FIR etc. be furnished to the Secretary, DLSA., Cachar,
Silchar facilitating the DLSA for deciding compensation to the victim
u/s 357(A) of the Cr.P.C.

48. A copy of this judgment be furnished to the District
Magistrate, Cachar, Silchar u/s 365 of the Cr.P.C.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 15"
day of February/2020.

( Mr.D.Ullah),

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

Dictated & corrected by me ;

Special Judge, Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by,
Sahid Ah.Laskar,

Stenographer.

 
(21)

APPENDIX

A.Prosecution Witnesses:-
P.W.1-victim(name withheld)
P.W.2-Mishri Lal Nunia

P.W.3-Sita Nunia

P.W.4-Moyna Nunia

P.W.5-Taranati Nunia @ Tara Moni Nunia
P.W.6-Smti Reba Chanda

P.W.7-Smti Kolabati Nunia
P.W.8-Dr.Monalisa Dev

P.W.9-Ahmed Hussain Mazumder

B.Prosecution Exhibits:-

Ext.1-FIR

Ext.2-Medical reported

Ext.3Sketch map

Ext.4-statement u/s 164 of the Cr.P.C
Ext.5-Charge sheet

C.Defence witnesses :- NIL
D.Defence Exhibits:- NIL

E.Court witness:- NIL.

( Mr.D.Ullah),
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.
(22)
