 

Page 1 of 5

Spl. POCSO Case No. 05/2014
IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FTC, BISWANATH CHARIALI,

SONITPUR, ASSAM

Spl. POCSO Case No. 05/2014
u/s 376 IPC r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act, 2012

 

State of Assam
=“V/S~
Sri Tankeswar Saikia

coon Accused

Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
~ Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,

Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

Advocates Appeared:-
For the prosecution: Mr. J. Bardoloi, learned Addl. P.P
For the defence —: Mr. T. Baruah, learned Advocate.

Dates of recording Evidence: 25.09.2017, 27.02.2018, 25.04.2018, 04.07.2018.
Date of Argument : 04.07.2018.
Date of Judgment : 04.07.2018.

JUDGMENT
The prosecution case in brief is that on 01.07.2014 the informant, Losu Kishan lodged
an FIR with the O/C Biswanath Chariali PS stating inter-alia that on 29.06.2014 at about
4 p.m. when his 5 year old daughter (name is withheld) went to the compound of the
accused Tankeswar Saikia for picking mangoes, the accused pulled her inside his house
and by closing the door and gagging her mouth, he committed rape on her and thereby
caused grievous injuries on her urethral opening. He stated that he had given ‘bichar’ to
the Gaonburah and the villagers but as the accused did not appear, as advised, he filed
the FIR.
Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After
investigation, the police submitted charge-sheet u/s 376(2) (i) IPC read with Section
4/5(g) POCSO Act, 2012. The accused in due course appeared before this Court for trial.
The copies of the relevant documents were furnished to him. As the accused expressed
his inability to engage a counsel of his choice to defend him, Sri T. Baruah, learned
Advocate was appointed from the panel of Legal Aid Counsel to defend the accused at
the expense of the State. Upon hearing both the sides on the point of charge, taking

note of the materials u/s 173 CrPC as my learned predecessor found grounds for
 

=

Page 2 of §
Spl. POCSO Case No. 05/2014

presuming that the accused has committed offences u/s 376 IPC, r/w Section 4 of
POCSO Act, 2012, the charges were accordingly framed against him, which on being
read over and explained, he pleaded not guilty.

During trial, the prosecution examined six witnesses in all. Looking into the evidence as
adduced by these witnesses including the informant, PW1 and taking note of the
medical examination report of the alleged victim, the prosecution declined to examine
the remaining witnesses contending that further evidence would not strengthen the
prosecution case. Looking into the materials on record and the medical examination
report of the alleged victim, the prosecution evidence was closed. The accused was
thereafter examined u/s 313 CrPC, his plea was total denial. He refused to any evidence

on his behalf. The case was thereafter, argued by both the sides.

Points for determination

cS * Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence committed penetrative sexual

assault on the said victim?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof
PW 1 is the informant, Losu Kishan. He stated that about three years back, on a day at

about 6 P.M. his wife told him that the accused took the victim took his house at about 4
p.m. and committed rape on her. Hearing the same, he went to the police station along
with his daughter and filed the FIR, which he proved it as Ext. 1. According to him, the
age of his daughter about 5 years at that relevant time. The police got his daughter
medically examined. In his cross-examination he stated that on the next day of the
occurrence he called one meeting where the Gaonburah and about 20-25 persons were
present. He stated that at the time of the occurrence he was at bazaar.

Thus, from the evidence of PW 1, it appears that he lodged the FIR on the next day of
the occurrence after he had heard about the same from his wife. But the Ext. 1 on the
other states that the incident took place on 29.06.2014 and the FIR was lodged on

ny Y ei “es 01.07.2014. His evidence does not disclose that either he or his wife had examined his

oe

oe 6.

re

daughter physically to find out the truth.

PW 2 is Basanta Kalita. He stated that he was not present on the day of the said
occurrence. Returning back to home in the evening at about 8 p.m., he saw the accused
and the informant having verbal arguments. He stated that they had quarrel over
missing of coins from the house of the accused. The accused suspected that the
daughter of the informant- the alleged victim had stolen the same. He then asked both
of them not to quarrel. A meeting of the next day on the said topic took place wherein

nothing materialised for which this case was filed. The evidence of PW 2 is in total
 

Page 3 O15
Spl. POCSO Case No. 05/2014
contradiction with the prosecution case.

PW 3 Saitendra Prasanna Saikia stated that the accused is his elder brother. About 2-3
years back the money the acused kept under the table of his house went missing and
the same was taken by the victim in order to buy snacks. He stated that for the said
reason the accused chased the victim girl in order to beat her and while running the
victim sustained injuries on her private part by falling. He stated that the informant out
of the small matter lodged the FIR against the accused. In his cross-examination he
stated that he did not witness the injuries sustained by the victim. PW3 too therefore
did not support the prosecution case.

PW 4 Arun Khaund is the VDP Secretary. He stated that one day in the year 2014 he
was informed by the PW1 that his 10 year old daughter- not of 5 years as stated in the
Ext.1- told him that when she try to urinate, she cried for which the informant took her
to a doctor. He stated that those days were the days of mangoes and the accused lured
the victim to his house in order to give her mango. According to him, the victim told her
mother that the accused had committed ‘bad work’ with her. In his cross-examination he
stated that the informant told him about the incident verbally. He denied to the
suggestion that he did not state before police during investigation of the case anything
which he had deposed before the court.

PW 5 Bhabani Upadhyaya stated that he was informed by the PW1 that his daughter
sufferred from burning sensation as soon as she tried to urinate. He stated that the
informant did not tell him as to why the daughter of the informant experienced burning
sensation while urinating. He could not say as to why the case was lodged by the
informant. According to him, the police did not interrogate him during the investigation
of the case. PW 6, Dulal Saikia stated that one night the informant had came to his
house and told that the accused took his daughter to his house by giving her mango
and then committed ‘beya kam’ with her. PW 6 then advised him not to quarrel with the
accused and advised him to steps as per law. He has no personal knowledge about the

said occurrence.

. As we scrutinise the evidence of the witnesses as examined by the prosecution, we find

that PW 4 and PW 5 stated that the informant had told them that his daughter
experienced burning sensation while she tried to urinate. But as we examine the
evidence of PW 1, we do not find anything in his testimony with regard to his
information given by him to the said witnesses. We have already noticed that PW 2 and
PW 3 have totally deposed the contradiction with the prosecution case. PW4, PW5 and
PW6 have no personal knowledge about the said occurrence. There is no eye witness to
the said occurrence except the victim. But the Medical Examination Report as is

available with the case record states that the alleged victim is a girl of 4 years. When we
Page 4 of §
Spl. POCSO Case No. 05/2014

take judicial notice of the Medical Examination Report of the victim, we find that the .
doctor examining her found no injury mark on her body. The doctor did not find any
redness around her introitus. Thus, the Medical Examination Report does not suggest of

any penetrative sexual assault being committed on the alleged victim as alleged by the

    
 

| Ext. 1. Thus, from the evidence on record, I find that the prosecution has failed to prove

\
ok

act

, its case. As such, I acquit the accused person from the offences charged against him
if and set him at liberty forthwith. His bail bond stands extended for a period of six
months u/s 437-A CrPC as prayed for by him. A copy of the judgment be forwarded to
the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in compliance with the sec. 365 Cr.P.C. The case is
disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 4" day of July, 2018.

cen

Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur,assam.

_ Sessions YUM
Loni Chariall, Sonitpur
\
Page 5 of §
Spl. POCSO Case No. 05/2014

ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the Prosecution:
PW1- Sri Losu Kishan

PW2- Sri Basanta Kalita

PW3- Sri Satyendra Prasanna Saikia
PW4- Sri Arun Khound

PW5- Sri Bhabani Upadhyaya

PWe- Sri Dulal Saikia

 

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
Exhibit-1: FIR

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

None.

Documents exhibited by the Defence:

None.

as

Addl. Sessions Judge

giswanain Chariali, Sonitpur
