Page |1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE (FTC), SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPL(POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing charge
Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused
u/s 313 of Cr. B.C

Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel of the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

60 of 2018
(Under Section 4 of Protection of Children
From Sexual Offence (POCSO) Act, Arising

out of GR Case No 2535 of 2018)

R. Baruah
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
State of Assam

-Vs-
Sri Nayanmoni Hazarika,
S/o Sri Puspa Hazarika,
Resident of Napam,
PS — Tezpur,
Dist- Sonitpur, Assam
21-12-2019.

05-03-2019.

05-03-2019.

05-03-2019.

05-03-2019.

Mr A Baruah & Mrs J Baruah,
Learned Addl. Public Prosecutors,

Tezpur.

Smti M Bhagawati, P. Hazarika,

Learned Advocates.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Nayanmoni Hazarika is put for trial for the

allegation of charge under Section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act (hereinafter referred to as ‘POCSO Act’).
Page |2

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on 26-06-2018 informant Siraj
Ali lodged FIR before the Borghat Police Out Post stating inter alia that he with
family reside in the land of another person at Napam. He and his wife remain
busy as daily wage earner. His 15 year old daughter remain in the house and
looks after the cattle. About few days ago they suspected the daughter to be
pregnant and examined by doctor. They could come to know that their daughter
is pregnant. On query his daughter informed that for some time, when his
daughter goes for grazing the cattle, the accused lured her and maintained

physical relation with her.

3. On receipt of the ejahar, I/C, Borghat Out post made GD Entry No
598 dated 26-06-2018 and forwarded the same to OC, Tezpur PS for registration
and investigation. Accordingly, O/C, Tezpur Police Station registered the case vide
Tezpur PS 1339/18 under Section 4 of POCSO Act. Police, after completion of
investigation, submitted charge sheet against the accused Nayanmoni Hazarika

for trial.

4. On appearance of the accused and after hearing the learned
Advocate for both the sides, charge under Section 4 of POCSO Act framed
against the accused. The above charge is read over and explained to the accused

to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case, prosecution has examined only 3(six)
nos. of witnesses including the victim namely 1. Md Siraj Ali, 2. Msstt Alekjan Bibi
and 3.Miss “X”(victim).

6. Accused was examined under section 313 Cr.P.C. The defence plea

is of total denial and declined to adduce defence evidence.

7. I have carefully gone through the record of the case and heard the

learned Counsel for both the sides.
Page |3

8. The point for decision in this case is that —

(1) “Whether the accused, prior to 26-06-2018
at Napam under Tezpur PS, committed
penetrative sexual assault to Smti "X” aged
about 16 years minor girl ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision:

9. Before appreciating the evidences adduced by the parties, I deem

it fit to reflect the summaries of evidence of the witnesses.

10. PW1 stated that he is the informant of this case. He knows the
accused. Victim “X” is his daughter. He used to reside in the landed property of
Amal Deka at Napam along with his family. He earned his livelihood working as
daily wage earner. His wife also used to remain outside during day time for
livelihood. About 6/7 months ago, they noticed that the abdomen of his daughter
is becoming bigger. He informed the Aasha worker. The worker informed them
that his daughter is pregnant. His daughter told him that due to relation with
accused she has become pregnant. Accordingly, he lodged FIR. Ext.1 is his
ejahar. Police examined his daughter by a doctor and also recorded her
statement by Magistrate. About two months back his daughter gave birth to a
female child. After some days, the child died. At the time of incident, the age of
his daughter was about 19 years.

During cross, PW1 stated that he married about 20/21 years back. After
one year of his marriage victim was born. He does not know whether there was
love affair between the accused and his daughter. The physical relationship
between them may take place due to the affair, and because of that his daughter
may have become pregnant, but, he does not know. Presently, they have
compromised the matter between them outside the court. He does not want to
proceed with this case further. He has no objection if the accused is acquitted by

this court.

11. PW2 said that informant is her husband and victim is her daughter.

She also knows the accused. She does not know the date and time, when the
Page |4

occurrence took place. As the menstrual cycle of her daughter stopped, she
enquired from her. Her daughter told that some days back when she had been to
the field with herd of goats for grazing, the accused did bad thing with her and
as a result, her cycle stopped. She took her daughter to an Aasha worker near
her house and confirmed that her daughter is pregnant of seven months. She
does not know the age of her daughter. After two months her daughter gave

birth to a female child, but, after some days the child died.

In cross PW2 said that she does not know when she entered into wedlock.
After one year of her marriage victim was born to them. She does not know the
exact age of her daughter. They have not procured the Birth Certificate and
School Certificate of her daughter. They have compromised the matter with the

accused. She has no objection if the accused is acquitted from this case.

12. PW3- the victim of this case stated that informant is her father.
She knows the accused. The incident is of 3/4 months back. There was love affair
between her and the accused for last 1-2 years. One day while she went to graze
to herd of goats, she met the accused. Physical relationship took place between
them. Accused asked her not to disclose about the physical relationship to her
family members. Her abdomen started swelling. On query, by her mother, she
told her that due to physical relationship with accused, she became pregnant.
Her mother took her to an Aasha worker and she also confirmed that she is
pregnant of seven months. Her father lodged the FIR. Accused was arrested.
After two months, she gave birth to a female child, but, the child died after some
days. Presently, she is staying with her father.

In her cross-examination she said that they have compromised the matter
with the accused outside the Court. If the accused is acquitted, she has no
objection. As there was love affair between them, the physical relationship took

place. At that time, her age was about 18 years.

13. The accused is charged under Section 4 of POCSO Act. To prove

the charge under Section 4 of POCSO Act, prosecution must prove that —
Page |5

Penetrative Sexual Assault. A person is said to commit “ Penetrative sexual
Assault’ if —

"a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina,
mouth urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him
or any other person;

b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the
body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the
child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

Cc) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as
to cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of
body or the child or makes the child to do so with him or any other
person; or

d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus,
urethra or the child to do so to such person or any other person’.

14. In this type of cases, the evidence of victim is material. Here in this
case, the victim PW-3 stated that there was love affair between her and the
accused for last 1-2 years. One day while she went to graze to herd of goats, she
met the accused. Physical relationship took place between them. In her cross-
examination she said that she said that they have compromised the matter with
the accused outside the Court. If the accused is acquitted, she has no objection.
As there was love affair between them, the physical relationship took place. At
that time, her age was about 18 years.

As per the POCSO Act, the victim should be less than 18 (eighteen)
years at the time of occurrence. In this the father of the victim said that at the
time of occurrence, the age of his daughter was 19 years. The parents are the
also the best person to know the age of their wards. Further, the evidences on
record mention that the physical relation between the accused and the victim
was consensual. Physical relation between major boy and girl and with consent,
cannot come under the POCSO Act. The consent of the parties can be presumed
from the nature of reporting. It is only on suspicion the victim divulged that there

was physical relation between her and the accused.

15. In view of the above discussions and reasons, it is held that

ingredients of the alleged charge is prove by prosecution.
Page |6

16. In view of the above, it is held that prosecution has failed to prove
the offence against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt. Hence, accused Sri

Nayanmoni Hazarika is acquitted and set him at liberty forthwith.

17. The bail bonds shall remain in force for six months from today.

18. Copy of this judgment be sent to the learned District Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur as per provision of Section 365 of CrPC.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 5" day of
March, 2019.

(R Baruah)
Special Judge
Sonitpur,Tezpur.
Dictated and corrected by me.
(R Baruah)

Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. Pori Das, Steno.
Page |7

ANNEXURE

Witnesses examined by the prosecution:

1.PW1 — Md Siraj Ali(informant),
2.PW2 — Msstt Alekjan Bibi, &
3.PW3 — Miss “X” (victim),

Witnesses examined by the Defence:

1.Nil.

Documents exhibited by the prosecution:

1. Ext. 1 : Ejahar,

(R Baruah)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur,Tezpur.
