Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019
Date: 16-12-2019

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, SIVSAGAR

Present- B. Roy, AJS
Special | udge,

Sivasagar.

Case No. Special (P) 39 of 2019
(Arising out of G.R. No.835 of 2019)
Under section- 376AB oflPC & Sec. 6 of POCSO Act

State
-V/s-
Md. Sahjahan Ali.

Advocates appeared:

For the State : - Sri S. Gogoi.

For the accused: - Sri D.K. Gohain.

Date of evidence: - 27.08.2019, 24.09.2019, 25.09.2019, 26.09.2019, 10.10.2019,
07.11.2019.

Date of argument: - 25-11-2019

Date of judgment: -16.12.2019

UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution is that the informant Smti. D. Swargiary, Chairperson
CWC, Sivasagar lodged an FIR in the Sivasagar P.S. on 21.05.2019 stating that from reliable
source the CWC came to know that one minor girl namely FB(name withheld) aged about 05
years was tortured physically and sexually by her biological father at her own house. The
informant further stated that the minor victimgirl was recovered and restored to AHANA
Children’s Home by the CWC on 21.05.2019.

2. The Officer-in-charge of Sivasagar PS received the FIR and registered Sivasagar P.S.
case no. 418/2019 u/s 376AB of IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act. The case was investigated
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019
Date: 16-12-2019

by WSI (P) Marchila D Sangma. On completion of investigation charge-sheet was submitted
against the accused Sahjahan Ali u/s 376AB of IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act.

3. As the accused was in jail, legal-aid-counsel was engaged to defend the case of the
accused. The copy of relevant documents were furnished to the accused andcharge under
sections 376AB of IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act were framed, read over and explained to

the accused to which he pleaded not guilty.

4. In the course of trial prosecution side examined 8 (eight) witnesses. The defence

plea is of denial.

5. The accused person was examined under section 313 Cr.P.C.
6. Heard the argument of learned counsel of both sides.

7. The points for determination in this case are as follows:

(i) | Whether at the time of the incident the victim girl was aged about 05 years?

(ii) Whether the victim girl used to stay alone at night with her father/accused?

(ili) Whether the accused has committed the offence as alleged in the FIR?

Discussion, decision and reasons:

 

8. The PW1 Smti. D. Swargiary Baruah is the informant cum Chairman, CWC,
Sivasagar. She stated that she doesn’t know the victim personally but after the incident
when she was rescued, she came to know about her. She stated that at the time of incident
the victim was aged about 05 years. On 21.05.2019 she was working as Chairperson, CWC,
Sivasagar. On 20.05.2019 she came to know through Ashma Begum, Anganwadi worker
about the incident. On the next day the said worker produced the victim girl before the
CWC. Her statement was recorded. As the victim was living with her father alone and the
allegation was against her father, she was sent to AHANA Children’s Home, Sivasagar. FIR
was lodged which is marked as Exhibit 1 wherein Ext. 1(1) is her signature. The victim girl
informed the CWC that the accused used to assault her sexually and also threatened her not

to shout or tell anyone about the incident.
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019
Date: 16-12-2019
9. In cross-examination the PW-1 stated that police did not record her statement. She
denied the suggestion that Ashma Begum did not inform the CWC about the incident. She
also stated that the statement of the victim girlrecorded by the CWC was not annexed with
the FIR.
10. PW-2 Kabita Borah, counsellor, District Child Protection Office, Sivasagar stated in
her evidence that the victim girl FB was produced before her for counselling. The victim girl
told her that as her mother got married another person, she used to live with her father. Her
father used to sleep with her at night. The victim girl further informed her that the accused
used to remove her panty and made contact of his penis with her vagina. Whenever she
shouted the accused scolded her and asked her to remain silent. PW-2 stated that police did

not record her statement.

11. = In cross examination the PW2 stated that the victim girl could not tell her any
specific date of occurrence as she is only 05 years old. She did not examine her physically.
She did not notice any external injury on the body of the victim. She stated that she was
entrusted by the chairperson of CWC for counselling the victim girl. The PW-2 denied the

suggestion that the victim girl was tortured by some other person.

12. The PW-3 Sahara Khatun stated in her evidence that the accused is her nephew. The
victim FB is her grand-daughter. She does not know the informant. The accused lives with
his daughter. The victim FB lives in her house during day time and the accused after
returning from work used to take her at night. The victim never told her anything about any
such incident as alleged in the FIR. She does not know the present address of the victim
girl. She is aged about 04 years. Her mother had eloped with another man long ago when

FB was about one and half years old.

13. —|n cross-examination she stated that she does not know what had happened in the
house of the accused at night. She does not have any personal knowledge about the
incident and came to know from others. She stated that the case is false.

14. The PW-4 Dr. Laxmi Deori examined the victim FB on 21-05-2019 in connection with
Sivasagar P.S. Case no. 418/2019 and she stated that on 21.05.2019 she was working at
Sivasagar Civil Hospital as M & HO - 1. On that day, at 9.45 p.m. on police requisition, she
examined FB in connection with Sivasagar (wrongly typed as Nazira) P. S. Case No.
418/2019 u/s 376AB of IPC r/w sec- 6 of POCSO Act. The victim was accompanied by HG
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019
Date: 16-12-2019

Mitali Chetia and attendant namely G. Gogoi and on examination she found as follows:

Identification Mark- (i)mole in back of chest (ii) mole in left

cheek.
Brief History-
Alleged H/O of sexual assault.
Age of menarche- not attended
LMP- Marital Status- Unmarried
General History:
General behaviour- Normal, Mental state- Normal
Clothes- Changed Findings- Nil
General physical examination:
Built and nutrition- Average Weight- 13 Kgs.
Height- 3 feet Teeth- E-A/ A-E
E-A/A-E
Development of hair-
Axillary & Pubic hair- Infantile stage
Breast development- Infantile stage. Findings- Infantile stage
Mark of violence on the body- Absent.
Examination of genitalia -
Development of genitalia- Infantile stage
Pubic hair- absent Clitoris- Normal

Labia-majora and minora- Infantile stage

Fourchette- Normal Hymen- Absent.

Vagina- Normal Injury- absent
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019
Date: 16-12-2019

Discharge and stains- Absent.
Abdominal Examination: - soft

Internal Examination-

Laboratory investigation: UA done. No spermatozoa seen.

Ultra-sonography - Uterus is normal in size for age.

Radiological examination:
Skiagram of the left elbow joint reveals incomplete fusion of epiphyses.

Skiagram of left wrist joint reveals incomplete fusion of epiphyses, pisiform

epiphysis not seen.

Opinion: On examination of FB, (i) Her age is below 10 years of age, (ii) On vaginal

smear slide examination, no spermatozoa seen.
Ext. 2 is the report and Ext. 2(1) is her signature.

15. ‘In cross examination she stated that the brief history of the case was given by the
victim. As the victim was minor she did not take her signature, but the signature of the

attendant was taken.

16. The PW-5 FB is the victim girl. She stated that earlier she used to stay with her
father, mother and “nani”. While staying with her father, her father used to sleep with her
and inserted/made contact of his “susu” with her “susu”. Her father used to bite on her
cheek. She became afraid. She told about the incident to her madam (baidew) at school.
She stated that her father is in jail. She also stated that she narrated about the incident to a

madam in Court. She was also taken to the doctor.

17. In cross-examination she stated that as her mother got married with other person,
she used to stay with her father alone. Her father did not have any quarrel with the madam
whom she told about the incident. She was accompanied with police to the Court at that
time.

18. The PW-6 Ashma Begum stated in her evidence that the accused is known to her. FB
is the daughter of the accused. FB used to come to the Anganwadi Centre for study. At that

time FB was about 04 years old. She knows the informant Smti. D. Swargiary, Chairperson

5
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019

Date: 16-12-2019

of CWC. On 20-05-2019 she came across the guardians in the Anganwadi Centre who were
talking about some incident with FB. She heard from the guardians that the father of FB
used to commit misdeed with her. Then she called FB in presence of other guardians and
enquired about the incident. The owner of the house Bandana Doley was also present. On
being asked FB told her that her father use to make contact of his private part (penis) with
her private part (vagina). Then she informed the matter to her supervisor Mobina Sultana.
She informed the matter to CWC. She was directed to produce the victim before the CWC.
She accordingly produced her before the CWC. Her statement was recorded in the CWC. At

that time she/PW-6 was not present. She knew this much. Police recorded her statement.

19. In cross-examination she stated that she has one daughter and one son. She does
not remember the names of the guardians. She denied the suggestion that she did not state
before the 1.0. as follows: “I came across the guardians in the Anganwadi Centre who were
talking about some incident with FB. | heard from the guardians that the father of FB used
to commit misdeed with her. Then | called FB in presence of other guardians and enquired
about the incident. The owner of the house Bandana Doley was present.” She stated that as
per her information the mother of the victim girl had already expired. She knew that the
accused used to go for work and the victim used to stay alone in the house. She denied the
suggestion that she wanted to adopt the victim and in that connection a quarrel took place
with the accused. She denied that in order to satisfy her grudge, she taught the victim in
such a manner and made out this false case. She stated that she has two children of her

own.

20. The PW-7 WSI (P) Marchila D. Sangma stated in her evidence that on 21.05.2019
she was working as WSI (P) at Sivasagar P.S. On that day the informant Mrs.
DipaliSwargiary lodged an FIR in the Sivasagar P.S. on the basis of which O.C. of Sivasagar
P.S. registered Sivasagar P.S. Case No. 418/2019 under sections 376 AB of IPC, read with
section 6 of POCSO Act. She was endorsed with the investigation of the case. As the
complainant was present in the police station, she recorded her statement. She visited the
place of occurrence and prepared sketch map. She recorded the statement of other
witnesses. As the complainant is the Chair Person of CWC, she had already sent the victim
girl to AAHANA Children’s Home. She recorded the statement of the victim girl at AAHANA
Children’s Home. The victim was taken to Sivasagar Civil Hospital, ]oysagar and she was
medically examined. Then she was again brought back to AAHANA Children’s Home.

Thereafter she received information regarding the accused and accordingly apprehended the
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019

Date: 16-12-2019

accused Sahjahan Ali and brought him to the police station. On the same day after
interrogation, the accused was arrested and on the next day he was forwarded to the Court.
She also collected medical examination report of the victim girl. During investigation the
family members of the victim could not furnish birth certificate and as the victim did not
formally take admission in any school so she could not collect school certificate. Relying on
the report of medical officer, on completion of investigation, having found sufficient
materials against the accused, she submitted charge sheet U/S 376 AB of IPC, R/W 6 of
POCSO Act. Ext. 3 is the sketch map; Ext. 3 (1) is her signature. Ext. 4 Charge sheet; Ext. 4

(1) is her signature.

21. In cross-examination she stated that she visited the place of occurrence and
AAHANA Children’s Home on the date of filing of the FIR. She recorded the statement of the
complainant and Kabita Bora on the same date. She denied that she did not record their
statements. She denied that she has prepared the case diary in the police station and
recorded their statement in the police station. The houses of Mustafa Ali, I|dul Ali and Iden
Ali are situated surrounding the place of occurrence. In her sketch map she has not
mentioned whether the place of occurrence is a house or some other place. She did not
record the statement of the neighbouring people as one of them (name not mentioned in
the C.D.) expressed his ignorance about the incident. She recorded statement of Ashma
Begum. The said P.W. did not state before her as follows “I came across the guardians in
the Anganwadi Centre who were talking about some incident with FB. | heard from the
guardians that the father of FB used to commit misdeed with her. Then | called FB in
presence of other guardians and enquired about the incident. The owner of the house
Bandana Doley was present.” She denied that she did not investigate the case properly.

She denied that she has submitted charge-sheet without any material.

22. The PW-8 Smti. Sibani Dutta, JMFC, Sivasagar in her evidence stated that on
22.05.2019 she was working as J] MFC, Sivasagar. On that day she recorded the statement of
the victim girl FB aged about 05 years in connection Sivasagar P.S. 418/2019 u/s 376 IPC
r/w section 6 of POCSO Act. She stated that before recording the statement of the witness,
she tested the capacity and competency of the victim girl as a witness and on being
satisfied, recorded her statement. The victim girl was produced before her by WHG Mitali
Chetia. After recording her statement, the thumb impression of the victim girl was taken and

then she put her signature. Ext. 5 is the statement wherein Ext. 5(1) is her signature.
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019

Date: 16-12-2019

23. In cross examination PW-8 admitted that the Ext. 5 is not a schedule format. She
also admitted that the second line and some part of the third line in the Ext. 5 are
crossed/cancelled. She also admitted that in the Ext. 5 she did not mention the questions
and the answers which she claimed to have put to the witness for testing her capacity and
competency. The victim girl stated before her that she disclosed the incident to one of her
neighbours and some other Bihari people. PW-8 admitted that in the Ext. 5 there is no
mention of the name of the person/ official and the place at which thumb impression of the
victim was taken. She denied the suggestion that she did not record the statement as per

the provisions of law.

24. On perusal of the Ext. 5which is the statement of the victim girl recorded u/s 164
Cr.P.C. it appears that she used to stay with her father alone. She stated that her father had
removed her clothes on many occasions and also used to insert his fingers into her vagina
and also used to make contact of his penis into her anus. She stated that her father used to
sleep with her in that position and after sometime leave her. She further stated that
sometimes her father used to insert his penis into her vagina/anus and she suffered severe
pain but he did not allow her to shout. After few days she informed the matter to one of her
neighbour whose name she could not recollect. She also stated that she informed the matter

to some Bihari people.

25. In the examination u/s 313 Cr.P.C. the accused denied the allegations, but admitted
that he used to bring the victim/ his daughter with him at night from the house of PW-3
Sahara Khatun. He also admitted that his daughter is aged about 5-6 years. The accused
further admitted that his daughter used to attend Anganwadi Centre and her age was 04

years.

26. The Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in AIR1983SC753-Bharwada
BhoginbhaiHirjibhai-Vs-State of Gujarat while dealing with the point of appreciation

of evidence of in a rape case held as follows:

“(1) By and large a witness cannot be expected to possess a photographic
memory and to recall the details of an incident. It is not as if a video tape is

replayed on the mental screen.

(2) Ordinarily it so happens that a witness is overtaken by events. The witness

could not have anticipated the occurrence which so often has an element of
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019
Date: 16-12-2019
surprise. The mental faculties therefore cannot be expected to be attuned to

absorb the details.

(3) The powers of observation differ from person to person. What one may
notice, another may not. An object or movement might emboss its image on one

person's mind whereas it might go unnoticed on the part of another.

(4) By and large people cannot accurately recall a conversation and reproduce the
very words used by them or heard by them. They can only recall the main purport
of the conversation. It is unrealistic to expect a witness to be a human tape

recorder.

(5) In regard to exact time of an incident, or the time duration of an occurrence,
usually, people make their estimates by guess work on the spur of the moment at
the time of interrogation. And one cannot expect people to make very precise or
reliable estimates in such matters. Again, it depends on the time-sense of

individuals which varies from person to person,

(6) Ordinarily a witness cannot be expected to recall accurately the sequence of
events which take place in rapid succession or in a short time span. A witness is

liable to get confused, or mixed up when interrogated later on.

(7) A witness, though wholly truthful, is liable to be overawed by the court
atmosphere and the piercing cross examination made by counsel and out of
nervousness mix up facts, get confused regarding sequence of events, or fill up
details from imagination on the spur of the moment. The sub-conscious mind of
the witness sometimes so operates on account of the fear of looking foolish or
being disbelieved though the witness is giving a truthful and honest account of
the occurrence witnessed by him-Perhaps it is a sort of a psychological defence

mechanism activated on the spur of the moment.

8. Discrepancies which do not go to the root of the matter and shake the basic
version of the witnesses therefore cannot be annexed with undue importance.
More so when the all-important "probabilities-factor" echoes in favour of the

version narrated by the witnesses.
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019

Date: 16-12-2019
9. It is now time to tackle the pivotal issue as regards the need for insisting on
corroboration to the testimony of the prosecutrix in sex-offences. This Court, in
Rameshwar v. The State of Rajasthan MANU/SC/0036/1951: 1952CriLJ547 has declared
that corroboration is not the sine qua-non for a conviction in a rape case. The utterance
of the Court in Rameshwar may be replayed, across the time-gap of three decades which

have whistled past, in the inimitable voice of Vivian Bose, ]. who spoke for the Court-

The rule, which according to the cases has hardened into one of law, is not that
corroboration is essential before there can be a conviction but that the necessity
of corroboration, as a matter of prudence, except where the circumstances make

it safe to dispense with it, must be present to the mind of the judge.

The only rule of law is that this rule of prudence must be present to the mind of
the Judge or the jury as the case may be and be understood and appreciated by
him or them. There is no rule of practice that there must, in every case, be

corroboration before a conviction can be allowed to stand.

10. And whilst the sands were running out in the time-glass, the crime graph of offences
against women in India has been scaling new peaks from day to day. That is why an
elaborate rescanning of the jurisprudential sky through the lenses of ‘logos' and ‘ethos’,
has been necessitated.

11. In the Indian setting, refusal to act on the testimony of a victim of sexual assault in
the absence of corroboration as a rule, is adding insult to injury. Why should the evidence
of the girl or the woman who complains of rape or sexual molestation be viewed with the
aid of spectacles fitted with lenses tinged with doubt, disbelief or suspicion? To do so is to
justify the charge of male chauvinism in a male dominated society. We must analyze the
argument in support of the need for corroboration and subject it to relentless and
remorseless cross-examination. And we must do so with a logical, and not an
Opinionated, eye in the light of probabilities with our feet firmly planted on the soil of
India and with our eyes focused on the Indian horizon. We must not be swept off the feet
by the approach made in the Western World which has its own social milieu, its own
social mores, its own permissive values, and its own code of life. Corroboration may be
considered essential to establish a sexual offence in the backdrop of the social ecology of
the Western World. It is wholly unnecessary to import the said concept on a turn-key

basis and to translate it on the Indian soil regardless of the altogether different

10
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019
Date: 16-12-2019
atmosphere, attitudes, mores, responses of the Indian Society, and its profile. The

identities of the two worlds are different.”

The Hon’ble Supreme Court in The state of Punjab vs Gurmit Singh &
others reported in 1996 AIR 1393 observed as follows:

“...he courts must, while evaluating evidence, remain alive to the fact that in a case of
rape, no self-respecting woman would come forward in a court just to make a humiliating
statement against her honour such as is involved in the commission of rape on her. In cases
involving sexual molestation, supposed considerations which have no material effect on the
veracity of the prosecution case or even discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix
should not, unless the discrepancies are such which are of fatal nature, be allowed to throw
out an otherwise reliable prosecution case. The inherent bashfulness of the females and the
tendency to conceal outrage of sexual aggression are factors which the Courts should not
over-look. The testimony of the victim in such cases is vital and unless there are compelling
reasons which necessitate looking for corroboration of her statement, the courts should find
no difficulty to act on the testimony of a victim of sexual assault alone to convict an accused
where her testimony inspires confidence and is found to be reliable. Seeking corroboration
of her statement before relying upon the same, as a rule, in such cases amounts to adding
insult to injury. Why should the evidence of a girl of a woman who complains of rape or
sexual molestation, be viewed with doubt, disbelief or suspicion? The Court while
appreciating the evidence of a prosecutrix may look for some assurance of her statement to
satisfy its judicial conscience, since she is a witness who is interested in the outcome of the
charge levelled by her, but there is no requirement of law to insist upon corroboration of her
statement to base conviction of an accused. The evidence of a victim of sexual assault
stands almost at par with the evidence of an injured witness and to an extent is even more
reliable. Just as a witness who has sustained some injury in the occurrence, which is not
found to be self-inflicted, is considered to be a good witness in the sense that he is least
likely to shield the real culprit, the evidence of a victim of a sexual offence is entitled to
great weight, absence of corroboration notwithstanding. Corroborative evidence is not an
imperative component of judicial credence in every case of rape. Corroboration as a
condition for judicial reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix is not a requirement of law
but a guidance of prudence under given circumstances. It must not be over-looked that a
woman or a girl subjected to sexual assault is not an accomplice to the crime but is a victim

of another person’s lust and it is improper and undesirable to test her evidence with a

11
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019

Date: 16-12-2019

certain amount of suspicion, treating her as if she were an accomplice. Inferences have to
be drawn from a given set of facts and circumstances with realistic diversity and not dead
uniformity lest that type of rigidity in the shape of rule of law is introduced through a new
form of testimonial tyranny making justice a casualty. Courts cannot cling to a fossil formula
and insist upon corroboration even if, taken as a whole, the case spoken of by the victim of
sex crime strikes the judicial mind as probable. In State of Maharashtra Vs.
ChandraprakashKewalchand Jain (1990 (1) SCC 550) Ahmadi, J. (as the Lord Chief J ustice

then was) speaking for the Bench summarised the position in the following words:

"A prosecutrix of a sex offence cannot be put on par with an accomplice. She is in fact a
victim of the crime. The Evidence Act nowhere says that her evidence cannot be accepted
unless it is corroborated in material particulars. She is undoubtedly a competent witness
under Section 118 and her evidence must receive the same weight as is attached to an
injured in cases of physical violence. The same degree of care and caution must attach in
the evaluation of her evidence as in the case of an injured complainant or witness and no
more. What is necessary is that the court must be alive to and conscious of the fact that it is
dealing with the evidence of a person who is interested in the outcome of the charge
levelled by her. If the court keeps this in mind and feels satisfied that it can act on the
evidence of the prosecutrix, there is no rule of law or practice incorporated in the Evidence
Act similar to illustration (b) to Section 114 which requires it to look for corroboration. If for
some reason the court is hesitant to place implicit reliance on the testimony of the
prosecutrix it may look for evidence which may lend assurance to her testimony short of
corroboration required in the case of an accomplice. The nature of evidence required to lend
assurance to the testimony of the prosecutrix must necessarily depend on the facts and
circumstances of each case. But if a prosecutrix is an adult and of full understanding the
court is entitled to base a conviction of her evidence unless the same is shown to be infirm
and not trustworthy. If the totality of the circumstances appearing on the record of the case
disclose that the prosecutrix does not have a strong motive to falsely involve the person

charged, the court should ordinarily have no hesitation in accepting her evidence."

We are in respectful agreement with the above exposition of law. In the instant case
our careful analysis of the statement of the prosecutrix has created an impression on our
minds that she is a reliable and truthful witness. Her testimony suffers from no infirmity or
blemish whatsoever. We have no hesitation in acting upon her testimony alone without
looking for any * corroboration’. However, in this case there is ample corroboration available

on the record to lend further credence to the testimony of the prosecutrix...”

12
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019
Date: 16-12-2019
The Hon’ble Supreme Court in The state of Rajasthan vs N.K. Accused
reported in (2000) SCC (Crl.) 898 observed as follows:

“alt is true that the golden thread which runs throughout the cob-web of criminal
jurisprudence as administered in India is that nine guilty may escape but one innocent
should not suffer. But at the same time no guilty should escape unpunished once the guilt
has been proved to hilt. An unmerited acquittal does no good to the society. If the
prosecution has succeeded in making out a convincing case for recording a finding as to the
accused being guilty, the Court should not lean in favour of acquittal by giving weight to
irrelevant or insignificant circumstances or by resorting to technicalities or by assuming
doubts and giving benefit thereof where none exists. A doubt, as understood in criminal
jurisprudence, has to be a reasonable doubt and not an excuse for finding in favour of
acquittal. An unmerited acquittal encourages wolves in the society being on prowl for easy
preys, more so when the victims of crime are helpless females. It is the spurt in the number
of unmerited acquittals recorded by criminal courts which gives rise to the demand for death
sentence to the rapists. The courts have to display a greater sense of responsibility and to
be more sensitive while dealing with charges of sexual assault on women. In
BharwadaBhoginbhaiHirijibhaiVs. State of Gujarat 1983 Crl.L.J. 1096 this Court observed
that refusal to act on the testimony of a victim of sexual assault in the absence of
corroboration as a rule, is adding insult to injury. This court deprecated viewing evidence of
such victim with the aid of spectacles fitted with lenses tinted with doubt, disbelief or
suspicion. We need only remind ourselves of what this court has said through one of us (Dr.
A.S. Anand, J. as His Lordship then was) in State of Punjab Vs. Gurmeet Singh &Ors., 1996
(2) SCC 384.

..A rapist not only violates the victim’s privacy and personal integrity, but inevitably causes
serious psychological as well as physical harm in the process. Rape is not merely a physical
assault it is often destructive of the whole personality of the victim. A murderer destroys the
physical body of his victim, a rapist degrades the very soul of the helpless female. The
courts, therefore, shoulder a great responsibility while trying an accused on charges of rape.
They must deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity. The courts should examine the
broader probabilities of a case and not get swayed by minor contradictions or insignificant
discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix, which are not of a fatal nature, to throw

out an otherwise reliable prosecution case.

13
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019

Date: 16-12-2019

The questions arising for consideration before us are: Whether the prosecution story, as

alleged, inspires confidence of the court on the evidence adduced? Whether the prosecutrix,

is a witness worthy of reliance? Whether the testimony of a prosecutrix who has been a

victim of rape stands in need of corroboration and, if so, whether such corroboration is

available in the facts of the present case? What was the age of the prosecutrix? Whether

she was a consenting party to the crime? Whether there was unexplained delay in lodging
the F.1.R.?

It is well settled that a prosecutrix complaining of having been a victim of the offence of
rape is not an accomplice after the crime. There is no rule of law that her testimony cannot
be acted without corroboration in material particulars. Her testimony has to be appreciated
on the principle of probabilities just as the testimony of any other witness; a high degree of
probability having been shown to exist in view of the subject matter being a criminal charge.
However, if the court of facts may find it difficult to accept the version of the prosecutrix on
its face value, it may search for evidence, direct or circumstantial, which would lend
assurance to her testimony. Assurance, short of corroboration as understood in the context
of an accomplice would do. Reference may be had to a long chain of decisions, some of
which are Rameshwar 1952 SCR 377, SidheshwarGanguly AIR 1958 SC 143,
MadhoramS&Anr. (1973) 1 SCC 533, State of Maharashtra Vs. ChandraprakashKewalchand
Jain (1990) 1 SCC 550, Madam Gopal Kaddad (1992) 3 SCC 204 Shri Narayan AIR 1992 (3)
SCC 615, Karnel Singh 1995 (5) SCC 518, BodhisattwaGautam 1996 (1) SCC 490 &Gurmit
Singh (supra). We may quote from the last of the above said decisions where the rule for
appreciating the evidence of the prosecutrix in such cases has been succinctly summed up in

the following words:-

If evidence of the prosecutrix inspires confidence, it must be relied upon without seeking
corroboration of her statement in material particulars. If for some reason the court finds it
difficult to place implicit reliance on her testimony, it may look for evidence which may lend
assurance to her testimony, short of corroboration required in the case of an accomplice.
The testimony of the prosecutrix must be appreciated in the background of the entire case
and the trial court must be alive to its responsibility and be sensitive while dealing with

cases involving sexual molestations...”

27. In the light of the above observations of the Hon'ble Supreme Court of India let

me examine the evidence adduced by the prosecution witnesses in this case.

14
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019
Date: 16-12-2019
28. The PW-1 Dr. Laxmi Deori in her evidence stated that on 21-05-2019 she
examined the victim who gave her a history of sexual assault. On examination she found
her age below 10 years. No spermatozoa was seen on the vaginal smear slide. The
hymen of the victim was found absent. The PW-3 Sahara Khatun is the grand-mother of
the victim and she stated that the victim girl is aged about 04 years. The PW-7 (I.0.)
stated that as the family members did not furnish birth certificate of the victim, she relied
on the medical report. In his examination under section 313 Cr.P.C. accused who is the
father of the victim admitted that at the relevant time FB was aged about 04 years. So
the admitted age of the victim by the accused who is also her biological father was 04
years at the relevant time. So it is proved that the victim girl was about 4/5 years at the
time of the incident.

29. The PW-2 who had counselled the victim stated in her evidence that the victim girl
told her that she used to live with her father as her mother got married with some other
person. The PW-3 is the grand-mother of the victim. She stated that the victim girl used
to stay at her house during day time but in the evening after returning from work, the
accused used to take her with him and kept her during night with him. The PW-5 (victim)
stated that she used to stay with her father alone as her mother got remarried. In his
examination under section 313 Cr.P.C. the accused also admitted that the victim/his
daughter used to stay with him at night in his house and during day time she used to stay
in the house of the PW-3. So it is proved that the victim girl used to stay in the house

with the accused who is also her biological father.

30. The third point to be decided is whether the accused committed the offence as
alleged in the FIR. The PW-4 Dr. Laxmi Deori in her evidence stated that on 21-05-2019
she examined the victim who gave her a history of sexual assault. On examination she
found her age below 10 years. No spermatozoa was seen on the vaginal smear slide. The
hymen of the victim was found absent. In her cross-examination the PW-4 affirmed that

the history of the case was given by the victim girl.

31. The PW-5 FB stated in her evidence that earlier she used to stay with her father,
mother and “nani”. While staying with her father, her father used to sleep with her and
inserted/made contact of his “susu” with her “susu”. Her father used to bite on her cheek.
She became afraid. She told about the incident to her madam (Baidew) at school. In cross-
examination she affirmed that as her mother got married with other person, she used to

stay with her father alone.

15
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019

Date: 16-12-2019

32. The PW-6 Ashma Begum is the said madam (Baidew)who stated in her evidence that
FB used to come to the Anganwadi Centre to study. On 20-05-2019 she came across the
guardians in the Anganwadi Centre who were talking about some incident with FB. She
heard from the guardians that the father of FB used to commit misdeed with her. Then she
called FB in presence of other guardians and enquired about the incident. On being asked
FB told her that her father use to make contact of his private part (penis) with her private

part (vagina). Then the matter was informed to the CWC.

33. Though the PW-6 did not state in that manner before the |.0. but that in no way
makes the prosecution case doubtful because on the basis of her information, FB was
produced before the CWC and then the FIR was lodged. Then the victim was produced
before the Id. J MFC, Sivasagar who recorded her statement. As discussed already, the victim
girl clearly implicated the accused in her statement. She also narrated the incident in the

similar manner before this Court.

34. Another important aspect of the matter is that while cross-examining the PW-6, the
defence suggested that she wanted to adopt the victim girl and in that connection a quarrel
took place with the father of the victim. So she tutored her and made out this false case.
But the PW-6 stated that she has two children of her own and so the plea taken by the
defence is not substantiated by the facts on record. The PW-6 did not have any such
intention. Of course her evidence suffers from some exaggeration but those are not fatal to
the prosecution case.

35. Section 29 of the POCSO Act, 2012 provided that where a person is prosecuted
for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence under sections 3, 5, 7 and 9
of this Act, the Special Court shall presume, that such person has committed or abetted or
attempted to commit the offence, as the case may be unless the contrary is proved. In the
instant case the prosecution has adduced sufficient evidence through the victim girl whose
evidence is found fully reliable, in the facts and circumstances of the case. The other
witnesses also supported the prosecution case. Though the PW-3 stated that the case is
false but her evidence on that point is not at all relevant because she herself admitted that
she had no Knowledge about the happenings in the house of the accused at night.

36. __|n the instant case though the charges were framed under sections 376AB of the IPC
read with section 6 of the POCSO Act, but from the evidence of the victim girl and the
evidence of the medical officer, it appears that it is a case falling under section 9 of the
POCSO Act, 2012. The victim girl stated that her father used to make contact of his penis

with her vagina and also used to bite her on the cheek. Though the medical officer stated

16
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019

Date: 16-12-2019

that the hymen of the victim was found absent but at the same time she also stated that no

injury mark was seen on her private parts. Hence by exercising the power conferred under

section 222 Cr.P.C. the accused Sahjahan Ali is held guilty for commission of offence under
section 10 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

37. | have considered the applicability of section 3 & 4 of the Probation of Offenders
Act in this case. The accused is aged about 30 years. The victim was aged about 4/5
years at the time of the occurrence. The accused is the biological father of the victim. The
mother of the victim girl had eloped with some other person. So her father was the only
support for the unfortunate minor girl who even did not know what the accused was
doing with her. The act committed by the accused is not only heinous crime but it also
puts a big question mark on the safety of the girl child who is not safe even in the hands
of her own father. A father plays a very important role in the life of a girl child/daughter
because she relies on her father emotionally and also seeks her ultimate security in his
care and protection. But if the father commits such heinous act, then on whom she will

rely. So | do not find the accused fit to get the benefit under the said provision of law.

38. Heard the accused on the point of sentence. His statement is recorded in a

separate sheet. | have also heard the Id. advocates of both sides.

The Hon’ble Supreme Court on the point of sentencing in a rape case observed
as follows in ShyamNarain-vs-State(NCT of Delhi) reported in (2013)7 SCC 77:

“18. In State of Andhra Pradesh v. BodemSundra Rao[6], this Court noticed that crimes
against women are on the rise and such crimes are affront to the human dignity of the
society and, therefore, imposition of inadequate sentence is injustice to the victim of the
crime in particular and the society in general. After so observing, the learned J udges had to
say this: -“The Courts have an obligation while awarding punishment to impose appropriate
punishment so as to respond to the society’s crime for justice against such criminals. Public
abhorrence of the crime needs a reflection through the Court's verdict in the measure of
punishment. The Courts must not only keep in view the rights of the criminal but also the
rights of the victim of crime and the society at large while considering imposition of the

appropriate punishment.”

19. In State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh and others[7], this Court stated with anguish that
crime against women in general and rape in particular is on the increase. The learned

17
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019

Date: 16-12-2019

Judges proceeded further to state that it is an irony that while we are celebrating women’s
rights in all soheres, we show little or no concern for her honour. It is a sad reflection of the
attitude of indifference of the society towards the violation of human dignity of the victims

of sex crimes. Thereafter, the Court observed the effect of rape on a victim with anguish: -

“We must remember that a rapist not only violates the victim’s privacy and personal
integrity, but inevitably causes serious psychological as well as physical harm in the process.
Rape is not merely a physical assault - it is often destructive of the whole personality of the
victim. A murderer destroys the physical body of his victim, a rapist degrades the very soul

of the helpless female.”

20. In State of Karnataka v. Krishnappa[8], a three-Judge Bench opined that the courts
must hear the loud cry for justice by the society in cases of the heinous crime of rape on
innocent helpless girls of tender years and respond by imposition of proper sentence. Public
abhorrence of the crime needs reflection through imposition of appropriate sentence by the
court. It was further observed that to show mercy in the case of such a heinous crime would

be travesty of justice and the plea for leniency is wholly misplaced.

21. In Jugendra Singh v. State of Uttar Pradesh[9], while dwelling upon the gravity of the

crime of rape, this Court had expressed thus: -

“Rape or an attempt to rape is a crime not against an individual but a crime which destroys
the basic equilibrium of the social atmosphere. The consequential death is more horrendous.
It is to be kept in mind that an offence against the body of a woman lowers her dignity and
mars her reputation. It is said that one’s physical frame is his or her temple. No one has any
right of encroachment. An attempt for the momentary pleasure of the accused has caused
the death of a child and had a devastating effect on her family and, in the ultimate
eventuate, on the collective at large. When a family suffers in such a manner, the society as
a whole is compelled to suffer as it creates an incurable dent in the fabric of the social

milieu.”

22. Keeping in view the aforesaid enunciation of law, the obtaining factual matrix, the
brutality reflected in the commission of crime, the response expected from the courts by the
society and the rampant uninhibited exposure of the bestial nature of pervert minds, we are
required to address whether the rigorous punishment for life imposed on the appellant is

excessive or deserves to be modified. The learned counsel for the appellant would submit

18
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019

Date: 16-12-2019

that the appellant has four children and if the sentence is maintained, not only his life but
also the life of his children would be ruined. The other ground that is urged is the
background of impecuniosity. In essence, leniency is sought on the base of aforesaid
mitigating factors. It is seemly to note that the legislature, while prescribing a minimum
sentence for a term which shall not be less than ten years, has also provided that the
sentence may be extended up to life. The legislature, in its wisdom, has left it to the
discretion of the Court. Almost for the last three decades, this Court has been expressing its
agony and distress pertaining to the increased rate of crimes against women. The eight year
old girl, who was supposed to spend time in cheerfulness, was dealt with animal passion
and her dignity and purity of physical frame was shattered. The plight of the child and the
shock suffered by her can be well visualised. The torment on the child has the potentiality to
corrode the poise and equanimity of any civilized society. The age old wise saying “child is a
gift of the providence” enters into the realm of absurdity. The young girl, with efflux of time,
would grow with traumatic experience, an unforgettable shame. She shall always be
haunted by the memory replete with heavy crush of disaster constantly echoing the chill air
of the past forcing her to a state of nightmarish melancholia. She may not be able to assert
the honour of a woman for no fault of hers. Respect for reputation of women in the society
shows the basic civility of a civilised society. No member of society can afford to conceive
the idea that he can create a hollow in the honour of a woman. Such thinking is not only
lamentable but also deplorable. It would not be an exaggeration to say that the thought of
sullying the physical frame of a woman is the demolition of the accepted civilized norm, i.e.,
“physical morality”. |n such a sphere, impetuosity has no room. The youthful excitement has
no place. It should be paramount in everyone's mind that, on one hand, the society as a
whole cannot preach from the pulpit about social, economic and political equality of the
sexes and, on the other, some pervert members of the same society dehumanize the
woman by attacking her body and ruining her chastity. It is an assault on the individuality
and inherent dignity of a woman with the mind-set that she should be elegantly servile to
men. Rape is a monstrous burial of her dignity in the darkness. It is a crime against the holy
body of a woman and the soul of the society and such a crime is aggravated by the manner
in which it has been committed. We have emphasised on the manner because, in the
present case, the victim is an eight year old girl who possibly would be deprived of the
dreams of “Spring of Life” and might be psychologically compelled to remain in the
“Torment of Winter”. When she suffers, the collective at large also suffers. Such a singular
crime creates an atmosphere of fear which is historically abhorred by the society. It

demands just punishment from the court and to such a demand, the courts of law are

19
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019

Date: 16-12-2019

bound to respond within legal parameters. It is a demand for justice and the award of
punishment has to be in consonance with the legislative command and the discretion vested
in the court. The mitigating factors put forth by the learned counsel for the appellant are
meant to invite mercy but we are disposed to think that the factual matrix cannot allow the
rainbow of mercy to magistrate. Our judicial discretion impels us to maintain the sentence of
rigorous imprisonment for life and, hence, we sustain the judgment of conviction and the

order of sentence passed by the High Court.”

39. Keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case and the manner of
commission of the offence and the nature of the offence, | am of the opinion that the

accused does not deserve leniency.

40. Accordingly the accused Sahjahan Ali is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment
(RI) for 07(seven) years for committing the offence punishable under section 10 of the
POCSO Act, 2012 and also to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000/- (one thousand) only, in default, to

undergo simple imprisonment for of one month.

41. Considering the fact of imposing minimum amount of fine due to poor financial back
ground of the convict, no order is passed for payment of compensation to the victim U/S
S57 CrP.

42. Considering the fact and circumstances of the case, | am of the opinion that it is a fit

case for referring the matter to DLSA, Sivasagar for granting compensationto the victim.

43. The convict is entitled for the benefit of Section 428 Cr.P.C. for the period already

undergone during investigation and trial.

44. Let a free of cost copy of the judgment be given to the convict immediately as per
the provisions of Section 363(1) Cr.P.C.

45. The convict is informed about his right of appeal against the judgment and order of
conviction and sentence either by appointing his own advocate or through legal aid panel

advocate or by way of Jail appeal.

46. Send a copy of the judgment to the District Magistrate, Sivasagar under section 365
Cr.P.C,

20
Spl.(P) Case No. 39/2019
Date: 16-12-2019

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 16°" day of December, 2019.

Special J udge, Sivasagar.

21
