1.

under Morigaon PS in the district of Morigaon), by showing affection and care
took the minor daughter of the informant to the handloom (Tatshal) house and
committed rape upon her. Thereafter, the minor daughter of the informant

narrated the incident to her parents and when they asked the accused about the

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON

Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 18/2017
U/S 342/376 (2)IPC, R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act

Present : Mr. Dhrupad Kashyap Das
Sessions Judge, Morigaon.
State of Assam
Vs.

Sri Madhab Saikia
beveeeeeues Accused Person

Date of Charge :- 22.08.2017.
Date of recording evidence :- 31.10.2017, 14.11.2017.
Date of Argument :-14.11.2017.
Date of Judgment :-15.11.2017.

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State:- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the accused:- Mr. B.C. Saikia, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case in brief is that on 29.01.2017, at about4.30 PM, the
accused namely, Madhab Saikia, (S/o Lt. Ram Nath Saikia of village Lukakuchi,

incident, he confessed his guilt. Hence the case.
On the next day i.e. on 30.01.2017, the informant went to the Morigaon
PS and lodged an F.I.R. On receipt of the F.I.R., the O.C of Morigaon PS
registered a case vide Morigaon PS Case No.43/2017, U/s 342/376(i)of IPC
r/wSection 4/5 of the POCSO Act.

After receipt of the same, the investigation was set in motion. During the
course of investigation, the I.O. visited the place of occurrence and drew sketch
map of the place of occurrence. The I.O. examined the material witnesses and
got the victim medically examined. Thereafter, the I.0. collected the medical
report and upon completion of investigation, he submitted charge-sheet against
the above-named accused with allegation of offence punishable U/s 342/376(i)
IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act, showing the accused person is detained in
jail custody.Accordingly, the accused personappeared before this Sessions
Courtand he was let off on court bail. Thereafter, this court furnished copies of
relevant documents as mandate U/s 207 of Cr.PC. to the accused person. Having
heard Ld. Counsel of both sides and basing upon the materials on record, framed
charges U/s 342/376 (2) IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused
person, which was read over and explained to the accused person to which he

pleaded innocence and claimed to be tried.

2.Point for determination :

(i) Whether the accused personon the eventful day i.e. on 29.01.2017
atabout4.30 PM at village Lukakuchi under Morigaon PS, wrongfully
confined the minor daughter of the informant?

(ii) Whether the accused person on the same day, time and place
committed rape with the minor daughter of the informant?

(iii) | Whether the accused person on the same day, time and
place,committed an offence of penetrative sexual assault as defined
U/s 3/4 of the POCSO Act with the minor daughter of the informant?
3. In this case prosecution has examined 2 (Two) PWs includingthe most
material witnesses of this case, the informant, who is thefather of the victim as
PW-1 and the PW-2, who is the aunt of the victim. But their evidence did not
Support the prosecution case on material aspects. In such circumstances,
prosecution was not willing to examine the remaining witnesses and at the
instance of the prosecution its evidence stands closed. Having found no
incriminating materials against the accused, the examination of accused as
warranted U/s 313 Cr.P.C. was dispensed with for the ends of justice. The

accused declined to adduce defence evidence.

4. I have heard argument so advanced by Ld. Counsel of both sides.

Considering the evidence on record, I have come to the following decisions.

5. DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

In this case, it is alleged by the prosecution that on the eventful day, the
above-named accused personcommitted rape upon the minor daughter of the
informant by showing affection and care.
(a) To prove this fact, the prosecution has examined PW-1,Sh. Pratap Bora,
who in his evidence stated that he lodged the case. The victim girl is his daughter
who was 7 years old at that time. He knows the accused person who is his
relative. On the date of the occurrence of the incident, the accused person came
to their house and at the relevant time he was absent. The accused person after
coming to their house showed affection and care to his daughter. The accused
took his daughter on his lap and kissed on her cheek out of affection and care.
However, his other family members suspected to that incident that the accused
wanted to do something with his daughter. Thereafter, when he returned back to
his house, his other family members as well as neighbors insisted him to lodge
the case and so, he lodged the case. Ext.1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is his
signature. However, the ejahar was not written by him therefore, he does not

know the contents of the same. He know this much only.
In his cross-examination, PW-1 stated that he did not have any intention
to lodge any case against the accused person. Later on, he and his family
members understood that the accused did not come to their house with any bad
intention. He used to come to their house frequently as he is their relative. He

always shows love and affection to his daughter whenever he met them.

(b) | PW-2,Anu Bora, in her evidence stated that the case was lodged by her
brother-in-law. Victim X is her niece. At the time of lodging the case she was 5
years old. The accused person is very close to us. On the date of occurrence of
the incident accused person came to their house and at that time Victim X was
playing in their compound. As soon as the accused person wanted to take her on
his shoulder out of affection, then the said girl (victim) started shouting and
crying. Thereafter, they came out and try to specify their girl (victim). However,
when the village people came to know the incident they took the matter
otherwise. They insisted the informant to lodge a case against him. But the case
was lodged out of misunderstanding. The accused was innocent. Her niece Victim

X is too small to depose before the court.

6. Thus, we have found that none of these two witnesses including the PW-1
(i.e. the informant),have not stated anything as regards tocommitting rape and

penetrative sexual assault being allegedly committed by the accused.

7. Considering the evidence on record, we have found that the material part
of the prosecution case remained un-substantiated, asPW-1, who is the informant
(father of the victim) of this case and PW-2 victim’s aunthave clearly statedthat
the accused did nothing wrong to the victim and the informant was insisted to
lodge the case by the neighbors of their villageand the accused was innocent.So,
we have found that the most material witnesses of this case as PW-1& PW-2 did
not support the prosecution allegation in its material aspects. Section 232 Cr.P.C.
mandates an acquittal of the accused from an offence, which states that “If, after

taking the evidence for the prosecution, examining the accused and hearing the
prosecution and the defence on the point, the Judge considers that there is no
evidence that the accused committed the offence, the Judge shall record an
order of acquittal.”

8. In view of the above discussion and in view of Section 232 Cr.P.C., I have
found that the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the accused beyond
any reasonable doubt. In the result, the accused person is not found guilty for
the offences punishable U/s 342/376 (2)of IPC, r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act and
as such, he is acquitted and set him at liberty. His bail bond shall remain

extended till next six months.

Judgment is delivered and pronounced in the open Court on this 15" day

of November, 2017 under my hand and seal.

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge
Morigaon.

Special Judge
Morigaon.
APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witness

1. PW-1 :- Sri Pratap Bora
2. PW-2 :- Smt.. Anu Bora
B. Defence witness : Nil.
C. Prosecution Exhibit :
1. Ext.1- Ejahar.

D. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

Special Judge,
Morigaon.
