eCourtIS Copy

IN THE COURT OF ADDL SPECIAL JUDGE ::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,
Addl. Special Judge (FTC),
Kokrajhar.

SPECIAL CASE NO.43/2018
U/S.4 of POCSO Act

STATE OF ASSAM
Vs

Sri Biswajit Mandal

S/O Sri Labkishor Mandal
Vill:- Jaypur

P.S. Gossaigaon

District Kokrajhar

beeeeeas Accused person.
Appearance: -
Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Monjit Kr. Ghose

Learned Counsel for the defence Mr. Kalyan Ray

Charge framed on 27.11.2018

Evidence recorded on 21.12.2018; 24.01.2019;
11.02.2019

Argument heard on 06.03.2019

Judgment pronounced on 12.03.2019

JUDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution is that on 28.7.2018 one xxx,
grandfather of the victim, lodged a written FIR with in-charge of Tulsibil
Police Out-post alleging that on 22.7.2018, at about 11 PM, his grand-
daughter, the victim, aged about 15 years, had gone to attend her
nature’s call. At that time, accused Biswajit Mandal grabbed her from

behind, gagged her mouth and thereafter, committed rape on her. The
eCourtIS Copy
informant also alleged that on 23.7.2018, at about 4 PM, accused again
entered into the residence and attempted to commit rape on the victim
but as the victim raised hue and cry, the neighbouring people gathered

and prevented the commission of rape.

2. On receipt of the FIR, it was forwarded to Gossaigaon Police
Station. A case under Section 447/506 IPC R/W Section 4 of Protection
of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, was registered and
investigated. Upon completion of investigation a charge- sheet was laid
against the accused for the offences under Section 447/506 IPC R/W

Section 4 of POCSO Act.

3. The case was transferred to this Court for disposal. Copies of
the relevant documents were furnished to the accused and upon
hearing both sides charge U/S 4 of POCSO Act was framed against the

accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

4. In the course of trial, prosecution examined six witnesses. The
accused was examined U/S 313 of CrPC. He denied the allegation

appearing against him and declined to adduce evidence.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:-

(i) Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault

on the victim ?
eCourtIS Copy

Decision With Reasons :-

5. Pw 1 is the victim and she deposes as hereinafter;

The incident occurred about 3 months back at 8 P.M. She was in
her house. Her mother and elder brother work in Gujrat. She had come
to Jaipur, Gossaingaon in connection with NRC matter. She was staying
in the house of her grandfather. She had gone to her own house
situated near the house of her grandfather. At that time accused
Biswajit was also going by the road and she was talking with Biswajit.
Suddenly, some boys came and started beating Biswajit. Those boys
also beat up the victim. Her grandfather then lodged an FIR with the

police.

6. As the evidence of pw 1 was in deviation of the statement under
Section 164 CrPC, the learned Special P.P sought the leave of the Cout

to declare the witness as hostile and the leave was granted.

Z; In her cross-examination by the learned Special PP, pw 1 stated
that she had stated in her statement under Section 164 CrPC that at
about 11 p.m when she had come out of her residence for relieving,
the accused came and grabbed her from behind and thereafter

committed sexual intercourse with her after felling her on the ground.

8. In her cross-examination by the defence, pw 1 deposed that she
calls the accused as dada (elder brother). She also deposed that she
was threatened by the local boys to make a statement before the

Magistrate.
eCourtIS Copy
9. Pw 2, xxx, is the informant and the grandfather of the victim. His

depostion goes as follows;

The incident occurred about 5 months back. He heard from local
villagers that accused Biswajit had committed sexual intercourse with
his grand-daughter. He lodged an FIR with the police. He inquired with
her grand-daughter and she told him that accused committed sexual

intercourse with her.

10. In cross-examination by the defence, pw 2 deposed that he is an
illiterate and that he had put his thumb impression on a blank paper.
On the date of occurrence he was working in a brick kiln at a different
place. When he returned to his house, at evening hours, he saw that
several village people have assembled near his house. He was told by

the villagers to lodge a case else there might be problems.

11. Pw 3, Pradip Barman, deposed that the occurence took place
about 5 months back. After he returned from his work he heard about
some village disputes. He did not go to the place of dispute. Later, he
learnt that Biswajit was apprehended by local villager while talking to

the victim.

12. This witness has also been declared hostile by the prosecution
and has been cross-examined with reference to his statement under

Section 161 CrPC.

13. PW4 Sri Bisadu Barman deposed that the occurrence took place
about 4 months back in the evening hours. He had gone for fishing and

heard hue and cry near the residence of victim. He went to the
eCourtIS Copy
residence of victim and heard that there was a dispute between

Biswajit and vicitm regarding love affairs.

14. PW5 Sri Rabinson Barman also deposed in the lines of pw 4 that

he had only heard about a dispute between accused and the victim.

15. It would be seen that none of the prosecution witnesses have
implicated the accused for commission of offence of penetrative sexual
assault. The only element in prosecution evidence which has been
emphasised by the learned Special PP is that victim had made a
statement under Section 164 CrPC and also made incriminating

statement under Section 161 CrPC.

16. It goes without saying that evidence of hostile witnesses can be
used by the prosecution if any part of the evidence corroborates the
prosecution case. In the present case, the principal prosecution

witness, the victim, has not supported the prosecution case.

17. In the case of V.K. Mishra v. State of Uttarakhand, (2015) 9 SCC
588, the Hon’ble Supreme Court held that Section 161 CrPC provides
for oral examination of a person by any Investigating Officer when such
person is supposed to be acquainted with the facts and circumstances
of the case. The purpose for and the manner in which the statement
recorded by police under Section 161 CrPC can be used at any trial are
indicated in Section 162 CrPC. It was further observed in the case of
V.K. Mishra (supra), that Section 162 CrPC bars use of statement of
witnesses recorded by the police except for the limited purpose of

contradiction of such witnesses as indicated there. The statement
eCourtIS Copy
made by a witness before the police under Section 161(1) CrPC can be
used only for the purpose of contradicting such witness on what he has
stated at the trial as laid down in the proviso to Section 162(1) CrPC.
The statements under Section 161 CrPC, recorded during the
investigation, are not substantive pieces of evidence but can be used

primarily for the limited purpose:

(i) of contradicting such witness by an accused under Section

145 of the Evidence Act;

(ii) the contradiction of such witness also by the prosecution but

with the leave of the Court; and

(iii) the re-examination of the witness, if necessary.

18. Hence, if the prosecution, by cross-examining the witnesses is
able to bring on record the statements made by them in Section 161
CrPC or in Section 164 CrPC it only proves that such statements were
made in Section 161 CrPC or in Section 164 CrPC and since both these
statements are not to be treated as substantive evidence, the proof of
statements under Section 161 CrPC or under Section 164 CrPC will not
assist the prosecution in bringing home the charge against the
accused. The cross-examination by the prosecution must bring forth

substantive evidence on record and not just previous statements.

19. Now, on the basis of evidence on record what is proved that the
victim was only talking to the accused and entire episode leading to
the present trial is a mistake of fact. Even though the victim admitted,

in her cross-examination by the prosecution, that she had made a
eCourtIS Copy
statement U/S 164 of CrPC wherein she stated that accused grabbed
her and thereafter committed sexual intercourse, the probative value
of statement U/S 164 of CrPC has been negated in the course of
examination by the defence, wherein the victim stated that she was
threatened by local boys to make a statement before the Magistrate.
Hence, even the statement under Section 164 CrPC was not voluntarily

made.

20. In view of this evidence on record there appears no reason for
holding the accused guilty for the offences charged. In the result the

point for determination is answered negative.

ORDER

Accused Biswajit Mandal is acquitted of the charge
under Section 4 of the POCSO Act and set at liberty
forthwith.

Bail bonds shall remain valid for six months.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court on this

12" day of March,2019.

Dictated by

Addl. Special Judge Addl Special Judge
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
eCourtIS Copy
Appendix
1. Prosecution Exhibits :-
Exhibit-1 Statement of victim
Exhibit-2 Medical report
2. Defence Exhibit Nil
3. Prosecution Witness
P.W.1 xxx Victim
P.W.2 xxx Grandather of victim
P.W.3 Sri Pradip Barman
P.W.4 Sri BisaduBarman
P.W.5 Sri Robinson Barman
P.W.6 Dr. Manisha Boro Phukan
4.Defence Witness Nil
5. Court witness Nil

Addl. Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
