IN THE COURT OF THE Special JUDGE t1i1ii:tiiiitits HAILAKANDI

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 04/2017

(Under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012)

State
Versus

BudulDaS  —_lhahecceececeece Accused.

PRESENT :- Sri D. Bhattacharjee, AJS,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Appearance and particulars:-

For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Special Public Prosecutor.
For the Accused :- Sri J.[. Choudhury and Sri J.U. Choudhury,
Ld. Advocates.
Dates of recording evidence of PWs. :- 18.09.2017, 12.10.2017, 04.12.2017,
02.01.2018 &20.02.2018.

Dates of recording evidence of DWs.:- 29.09.2018.

Date of recording statement U/S 313 Cr.P.C. :- 14.03.2018.

Date of Argument - 14.11.2018.
Date of Judgment :- 28.11.2018.
JUDGMENT
i, The prosecution case in brief is that on 03.05.2017 one Sri

Chandan Das lodged an FIR with the Officer-in-charge Ramnathpur Police Station
alleging inter alia that on 01.05.2017 the accused restrained his 4 (four) years
old minor daughter (name withheld) in his house and attempted to do sexual
intercourse but his daughter raised hue and cry and on hearing the hue and cry,

CONG icccsticeecs P/2,
ial (P O) (T-1 No. 04/2017.

p=
his wife Smti Suniti Das went to the house of accused and found her daughter
and the accused in naked condition inside the house. His wife recovered the child
and informed the same to the neighbouring people. It is further alleged that due
to the said acts of accused, the private part of his daughter was found swollen
up and there was pain in her private parts. It is clarified that there was some
delay in lodging the FIR as there was a talk of compromise.

2. On receipt of the FIR, the Ramnathpur P. S Case No.
115/17 was registered u/s 4 of the POCSO Act 2012. During investigation police
visited the place of occurrence, recorded the statements of witnesses, got the
victim medically examined, arrested the accused person and forwarded him to
the court and after completion of investigation having been found prima facie
case laid the charge sheet against the accused u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

3. This court being the court of original jurisdiction under the
POCSO Act, furnished copies of relevant materials to the accused person and
after hearing the learned Special Public Prosecutor and the learned Defence
counsel and after perusal of materials available on record having been found
sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person has committed the
offence, formal charge had been framed against him under Section 4 of the
POCSO Act, 2012. The charge so framed was read over and explained to the
accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried and hence, the

trial.

4, The prosecution in order to prove its case examined as
many as 9 (nine) PWs including M.O. and I.0. The defence plea is of total denial.
The accused person was examined u/s 313 of Cr. P. C. wherein he denied all
such incriminating materials brought in evidence against him and pleaded that
out of the grudge of land dispute, the case has been filed against him with false
allegations. The defence side examined two DWs.

5, Heard argument of the learned Special Public Prosecutor
and the learned Defence counsel.

COMUEG ce cseceeees P/3.
Special (POCSOQ) (T-1) Case No. 04/2017.
-3.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

 

Whether the accused person on 01.05.2017 in the evening
at about 3 P.M. at village Garmurah Forest Village committed penetrative sexual
assault on the victim, minor daughter of the informant and thereby committed an
offence punishable under Section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012?

DI TON, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

6. The PW-1, Smt. Suniti Das has deposed that the victim is
her daughter aged about 6 years. On the 1* day of May, 2017 at about 2:30
P.M., she was in her house and her husband viz. the informant was in the market
and at that time, she heard sound of hue and cry of her six years old daughter in
the house of accused Budul Das. Immediately, she went to the house of accused
and saw the accused Budul Das and her daughter in naked condition. On seeing
her, accused Budul Das hid himself and thereafter fled away. She has further
stated that the wife of accused stays in Bengaluru along with her two sons. At
the relevant time, Junaki, the daughter of accused was not in the house as she
was in the house of her aunt. She informed the incident to the sister of accused
namely, Mukta who advised her to inform the same to the village heaclman. The
village headman referred her to the house of one Sudhanshu, the brother of
accused. Accordingly, she went there who referred her to the house of Parimol,
another brother of accused but ultimately, she did not get justice. In the night,
her husband came, she narrated the entire incident to him and her husband
lodged the case. She noticed injury in the vagina of her daughter. Her daughter
reported her that the accused touched the vagina of her daughter with his penis.
She applied ointment in the injury. After the incident, her daughter was medically
examined.

In cross examination she has stated that there is a village
path by the side of her house. The houses of Sudhangshu and Nokul Moni are
situated nearby the house of accused towards east, the house of Biru is to the
west and to the north the house of Monu Master is situated. Immediate after the
incident, the accused fled away putting his house under lock and key. She denied

COME sevssavees P/4,
i P a 4 1 5
-4-

the suggestion that she did not state before police that she noticed injury in the
vagina of her daughter and she applied ointment in the injury. She also denied
the suggestion that there is land dispute between her family and the accused
person and in order to grab the land of accused, they have filed the case with
false allegations.

7. The PW-2, victim, a six years old minor girl has deposed
that the accused whom she addressed as Jetha (uncle) made her naked and
touched her vagina with his penis.

In cross examination, she has stated that she was naked
and immediately her mother came. Police came to her house and asked her
about the incident and at this point, during cross examination the child started
crying.

8. The PW-3, Sri Chandan Das, the informant of the case has
deposed that the house of accused is situated at a distance of 15/16 nals from
his house, On 01.05.2017 at about 9:30 P.M. he returned home from market and
then his wife (Suniti Das) reported him that on that day at around 2:30 P.M. the
accused committed some bad acts with his 5 years old minor daughter and when
she (PW.-1) went to the house of accused, she found her daughter and the
accused in naked condition. He has further stated that before his arrival from
market, his wife reported the incident to the elderly village people. His wife told
him that his daughter had been suffering from vaginal pain. On 03.05.2017 he
lodged the FIR vide Ext.-1.

In cross examination, he has stated that the houses of Kuti
Morol, Monu Master and Sunil Das are situated nearby his house. There is no
house in between his house and the house of accused. The accused person has
got two sons, two daughter and wife. The accused is aged about 60 years.

9, The PW-4, Anjan Das has deposed that the informant is his
son. When he returned home from Mizoram, his son reported him that the
accused Budul Das sexually assaulted his grand-daughter which was witnessed
by the wife of his son Suniti Das. Suniti Das found the accused and his grand-
daughter in naked condition. COM ssesceenense P/5,
Ss i 1 P T-1 N 1 4 7.
ai

In cross examination, he has stated that the accused is a
married person and his wife and children reside in Bengaluru. He has further
stated that in between his house and the house of Nibaran Das, the house of
accused is situated. Near to his house, the houses of other relatives of the
accused are situated. He denied the suggestion that his son wanted to disposses
the accused from the khas land, failing which the instant case has been filed. The
accused is aged about 60 years. The accused stays in his house alone.

10. The PW-5, Dr. Ranabijay Malakar has deposed that on
04.05.2017 he examined the victim at S.K. Roy Civil Hospital, Hailakandi and
found no mark of violence present in her private parts. No spermatozoa was
found. The age of the victim was found 5/6 years. Ext.-2 is the medical report.

11. The PW-6, Sri Uttam Das has deposed that the informant
is his brother. After 7/8 days of the occurrence, he went to his house and then
his wife, brother and sister-in-law reported him that the accused committed

sexual assault on his niece.

In cross examination, he has stated that he did not see the

occurrence.

12. The PW-7, Sipra Das has deposed that the informant is her
brother-in-law. About 7/8 months back in an evening while she was taking bath
in a pond, the mother of the victim came there raising commotion and reported
her that the accused Budul Das did some bad acts with her minor daughter.

In cross examination, she has stated that she did not see
anything. The accused is an aged person having his wife and children but at the
relevant time, they were in Bengaluru.

13. The PW-8, Sri Pijush Kanti Roy, the Investigating Officer
has deposed that he investigated the case.

In cross examination, he has stated that as per FIR, the
date of occurrence is 01.05.2017 and the incident was reported to the police on
04.05.2017. In the FIR, the cause of delay is mentioned. The PW-1 did not state

COT, sreavsnevexs PE,
ial (P -1 :
4

before him that she noticed injury in the vagina of the victim and applied
ointment therein. He has further stated that since there was no neighbouring
independent witness, he recorded the statements of witnesses who are relatives
of the informant. The victim did not make any statement before him as she was
crying only.

14. The PW-9, S.I. Mukut Hazarika has deposed that he
submitted charge sheet against the accused under Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

15. The DW-1, Ujjal Das has deposed that the distance
between his house and the house of accused is around half mile. There is a road
near the houses of the accused and the informant. About one year back one day
while he was passing through the road he heard the accused rebuking the
informant saying that why they discharged stool on the said path, he also asked
the informant to construct a latrine. Thereafter, he left for his home. On the
same day, in the evening he again came and found the victim and the daughter
of accused as well as other children were playing. On the next day, he again
came and while was passing through the road, he heard that the wife of
informant was shouting and saying that there is no person in her favour in the
village and also was shouting saying that the accused committed rape on her
daughter. On hearing the same, he did not believe it. The 10/15 people sitting in
the shop near the house of accused told him and his grand-father that such type
of incident was not heard by them. He has further stated that the informant and
the accused always quarrels each other regarding land as well as latrine. On the
next day, the daughter of Budul Das aged about 10 years was in the home and
she cooks food for her father. The informant Chandan Das has very bitter
relation with all the villagers.

In cross examination, he has stated that he appeared in
the court on being brought by the accused who paid his car fare. He does not
know the wife of Budul Das. He does not know the names of wife and children of
the informant. He was not invited in the meeting which was convened by the

informant but his grand-father was present.

CORD oxcecesxsoss P/7,
ial (P T-1 No. 04 17.
J.

16. The DW-2, Jyotish Chandra Das has deposed that about
one and half years back, one day he and DW-1 were going through the road
nearby the house of accused and informant and at that time, the DW-1 told him
that the accused and the wife of informant were quarrelling regarding discharge
of stool by the informant’s family on the path of the accused to which the DW-1
interfered and settled the dispute of both the family. On the same day, they
found the daughters of informant and the accused were playing. Thereafter, they
proceeding at a little distance and near the house of accused and the informant,
there is a shop in which they found 5/6 persons were sitting. On seeing him,
those persons told him that the accused Budul Das committed rape on the
daughter of informant. Then he sent two numbers of female to the house of
informant to take stock of the situation and accordingly, he was reported by the
females that no such incident of rape took place and the victim was playing with
other girls.

In cross examination, he has stated that he cannot say the
name of the females whom he sent to take stock of the situation. He was not
asked for the bichar. The DW-1, Ujjal Das is not his relative.

17. The PW-1, mother of the victim and the PW-2, victim have
stated that at the relevant time the victim was aged 6 years. The PW-3, the
father of the victim has stated that at the relevant time the victim was aged
about 5 years. The PW-5, Medical Officer has deposed that on examination, it
was found that the victim was aged about 5 to 6 years. The above evidence of
the prosecution witnesses as regards age of the victim was not denied by the
defence and hence, considering the consistency of all the material witnesses as
regards age of the victim, it is established that at the relevant time the victim
was aged about 6 years.

18. The PW-3, the informant has alleged in the Ext.-1, FIR that
on hearing hue and cry of his minor daughter, his wife (PW-1) went to the house
of accused and found his daughter and the accused in naked condition inside the
house. It is further alleged that after recovery of his daughter, it was noticed that
the private parts of his daughter was found swollen up and she felt pain therein.

COM ssscinivees P/8.
cial (P O) (T-1 No. 04/2017.
-8-

Now, coming to the evidence of PW-3, it is appeared that he is a reported
witness as at the relevant time, he was not in his home and after his return his
wife (PW-1) reported him about the incident. He was reported by the PW-1 that
when she went to the house of accused, she found her daughter and the
accused in naked condition, which shows that apart from victim, the PW-1
(mother of the victim) is also a very important witness in the case. The PWs.-4, 6
& 7 are also reported witness.

19, The victim (PW-2) is a 6 years old child. At the time of
adducing evidence in the court, she could not state about the occurrence in
detail. It is very natural that a child of 6 years would not be able to understand
all the acts and deeds like a matured person and therefore, it cannot be expected
from a child of 6 years that she will narrate the entire incident in a decent and
Proper manner in detail. However, she has stated that the accused whom she
addressed as uncle made her naked and by indicating with her finger stated that
the accused touched her vagina with his penis and that apart she could not state
anything and she started crying. Though the victim could not state the incident in
detail but stated the most vital part of the incident. The defence failed to bring
any contradiction in her evidence.

20. The Ld. Counsel for the defence during argument has
submitted that it is completely unsafe to act upon the uncorroborated testimony
of a child as there is every possibility of the child being tutored. As discussed
above, the child was so shocked that after stating the incident to the court, she
started crying and if the child was tutored, she would not have started crying. At
the time of adducing evidence, when she recalled the said barbaric acts done
upon her, tears came automatically in her eyes.

21. The Ld. Counsel for the defence has further submitted that
had the accused committed any bad act with the victim, a 6 years old child,
definitely the doctor who examined her would have found sign of injury in her
private parts and therefore, it is clear that the entire case of the prosecution is
out and out false. From the FIR, as well as from the other materials available on
record, it is clear that the incident occurred on 01.05.2017 and the victim was

COM scteiaseens P/Y.
P - 4 Z.
-9-

medically examined on 04.05.2017 i.e. after 3 days of the occurrence and under
such circumstances, it cannot be expected that any such minor injury would last
for 3 days.

22. The evidence of PW-1 is that on hearing cry of her
daughter, when she went to the house of accused, she found her daughter and
the accused in naked condition in the house of accused. After recovery of her
child, she noticed injury in the vagina of her child and her daughter reported that
the accused got his penis touched into her vagina. From the evidence of PW-8,
Investigating Officer, it is found that the PW-1 omitted to State before police that
she noticed injury in the vagina of her daughter, which is a very minor omission
and that apart, there is no omission in the above testimony of PW-1. So what
have been appeared from the evidence of PW-1 is that on hearing the sound of
her daughter in the house of accused, she went there and found her daughter
and the accused inside the house of accused in naked condition and after
recovery, her daughter told her that the accused got his penis touched into her
vagina.

23. The above evidence of PWs.- 1 & 2 are very much
corroborative and consistent to the facts that the victim was found in the house
of accused in naked condition. The accused was also naked and the accused got
his penis touched with the vagina of the victim.

24. Now, the question may arise as to how the victim went to
the house of accused and how the accused got the opportunity in his house to
do such type of things. The PW-1 has stated that the wife and two sons of
accused reside in Bengaluru and his daughter who was residing with the accused
was not in the home at the relevant time as she went to her aunt's house. The
PWs.-4, 6 & 7 have also stated that the wife and children of the accused reside
in Bengaluru. The above evidence of the Prosecution witnesses makes it clear
that at the relevant time, the accused was alone in his house. Further, the PW-3
has stated in his cross examination that there is no house in between his house
and the house of accused person. The above evidence of the prosecution
witnesses could not be disproved by the defence. Therefore, it is clear before this

CONG. cwrscsasivio P/10.
 

ecial (P T-1 . 04 17.
-10-

Court that the house of accused is near to the house of victim and at the
relevant time, the accused was alone in his house and in such a situation, the
accused had ample opportunity to take the victim in his house and to do the
heinous acts.

25. The defence plea is that out of grudge of land dispute, the
instant case has been filed against the accused only to harass him. The accused
in his statement recorded under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. stated that there is a land
dispute between him and the informant. It is further stated that the informant
and his family members used his land for their latrine but his daughter closed the
gate of the land and since then they started quarrelling with him and ultimately,
they have filed the false case against him. In support of the defence case, two
numbers of witnesses have been examined as DWs.-1 & 2. The DW-1, Ujjal Das
has stated in his evidence that the DW-2 is his grand-father but the DW-2 in his
cross examination has stated that the DW-1 is not his relative. Further, the
evidence adduced by them itself shows that they have made out a third case.
According to them, after knowing about the incident, they sent two ladies to the
house of victim to take stock of the situation but it is an utter surprise they do
not know the names of the ladies. Therefore, the evidence of DWs.-1 & 2 have

been found highly unreliable and cannot be acted upon.

26. As discussed above, the evidence of PWs.-1 & 2 have been
found very much consistent, corroborative and trustworthy that the accused,
who is a close door neighbour of the victim, took the victim in his house when he
was alone and made himself and the victim naked and touched the vagina of the
victim with his penis.

27. Now, it is to be ascertained whether the accused
committed the offence under Section 4 of POCSO Act. In the present context, I
would like to refer Section 3 of the POCSO Act, 2012. Section 3 of the POCSO Act
reads as follows :-
3. Penetrative sexual assault

A person is said to commit "penetrative sexual assault” if —

COD. ssevterere P/11.
Special (POCS -1) Case No. 04/2017.
-11-

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina,
mouth, urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to
do so with him or any other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the
body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or
anus of the child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to
cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any
part of body of the child or makes the child to do so with
him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra
of the child or makes the child to do so to such person or

any other person.

28. From the above definition of penetrative sexual assault, it
is appeared that if the penis gets touched to any extent in any part of the vagina,
the Section 3 of the Act would come into play.

29. In the present context, the word “penetration” is the most
vital word to be interpreted in the light of the definition of rape as well as of
penetrative sexual assault. What did the legislature contemplate by the
expression, "penetration" in Section 375 of IPC and Section 3 of POCSO Act,
2012? This requires a threadbare discussion. The word "penetration" is not
defined in the IPC. The word, "penetrate", as per ‘The Concise Oxford
Dictionary’, means "the act or process of making way into or through
something"; "to enter or pass through or force a way into or through". The
dictionary meaning of the word, "penetration" was considered in the context of
"rape" by the Hon’ble Supreme Court in Tarkeshwar Sahu v. State of Bihar
(2006) 8 SCC 560 and it was held (vide para 12), "the word "penetrate",
according to Concise Oxford Dictionary means, "find access into or through, pass
through”. Thus, the process of finding access through; making/forcing a way
through; passing through something or finding access into; making/forcing a way

CORT x cnvasveces P/12.
yO
NX “Ob
aie r& pre
wee

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No. 04/2017.
-12-

into something, is “penetration”. Here, the words, "through" and "into" strike the
difference and those are clearly distinguishable, as evident from the word, "or"
coming in-between. While in the former, there is passing through something i.e.,
there is an actual entry through something, in the latter, there is only a process
of making or forcing a way into or towards something, without there being an
actual entry through something. But, both are "penetration", going by the
dictionary meaning. So, if the first meaning is attributed to the word "penetrate",
in sexual intercourse, it would follow that the male organ must pass through
vagina or it must make a way through vagina i.e., there must be an actual entry
of penis through vagina. But, if the second meaning is applied, it would be
sufficient, if penis finds an access into or makes/forces a way into or towards
vagina, for which, there need not be any entry of penis through vagina. But,
during such process of accessing, the male organ would necessarily and forcibly
come into contact with some other portions of the external female private part.
Therefore, going by the dictionary meaning, such penile- accessing towards
vagina can also be treated as "penetration", in reference to sexual intercourse.
Thus, it follows that ordinarily, the act of penis passing through vagina i.e., the
actual entry of penis through vagina (penile-vaginal entry) is essential to
constitute the "sexual intercourse", which is referred to in the opening of section
375 IPC. Whether such entry is complete, partial or slight, it will amount to such
"sexual intercourse". But, as per the Explanation — 1, to the same section, it is
sufficient if penis finds only an access into vagina, without there being an actual
entry of penis through vagina and during such process, the male organ comes
into contact with any other external portions of female genital organ such as,
vulva/pudendum, labia majora, labia minora etc., and that would also constitute

the “sexual intercourse” which is necessary for the offence of "rape".

30. For the purpose of clarifying this medico-legal aspect of
the matter I would respectfully refer myself to a decision of the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court in Haren Borah vs. State of Assam, 2011 (3) GLR 44, where the
Doctor after examining the victim opined that there was no sign of sexual
intercourse and the hymen was intact and if the medical report is read with the

COME. .cccceeseres P/13.
 

Special (POCSO) (T-1) Case No, 04/2017.
-13-

evidence of Medical Officer, it is apparent that no rape is committed on the victim
girl, but the Hon’ble High Court placing reliance on M. P. Vs. Munna Choubey
and Anr. , reported in (2005) 2 SCC 710 and Tarkeswar Sahu Vs. State
of Bihar (Now Jharkhand) reported in (2006) 8 SCC 560 has held that an
attempt of penetration by penis touching labia majora or vulva in pudenda surely
constitutes the offence of rape.

31, Reverting back to the case at hand, it is found that the
accused got touched his penis into the vagina of the victim and therefore, the
said act of the accused comes within the four corners of the offence under
Section 3 of the POCSO Act, the punishment for which has been prescribed
under Section 4 of the Act.

32. As regards delay in fling the FIR, the PW-1, the mother of
the victim very categorically stated in her evidence that she was sent to the
houses of many persons of her village for getting justice and when she was
denied justice in the locality, she has come up with the present case.

33. In view of above discussion of evidence on record, it is
arrived that the prosecution is able to prove its case against the accused person
beyond all reasonable doubt and thus, the accused Budul Das is convicted
under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

34. Heard the convict on the point of sentence. He has stated
that he is an old aged person and pleaded for clemency.

35. The facts and circumstances under which the incident
occurred and taking into consideration all the aspects of the case including the
age of the convict, this court is of the humble opinion that the following

punishment would meet the ends of justice:

36. The convict Sri Budul Das is sentenced to undergo
rigorous imprisonment for 7 (seven) years and to pay fine of Rs.2,000/-
in default, he shall undergo further R/I for 2 (two) months for the
offence u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

COME», isivesisenes P/14.
ial (P T-1 N 2
-14-

37. The period of detention if any, already underwent by the

convict during investigation or trial shall be set off from the sentence awarded,
38. The bail bond of the convict stands discharged.

39. Furnish a copy of this judgment to the convict immediately
free of cost.

40. Also, send copy of this judgment to the District Magistrate,
Hailakandi.
41. The Special (POCSO) Case is disposed of accordingly.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 28"
day of November, 2018 in Hailakandi.

\e

\\
Special Judge,
Hailakandi.
SPECIAL JUDGB

Dictated and corrected by me: HAILAKAN DI

Special Judge,Hailakandi.
SPECIAL JUDGE

HAILAKAND!

Dictation is taken and transcribed by Samsher Bahadur, Stenographer
Grade — III.

COME csccssvnsone P/15.
Special (POCSOQ) (T-1) Case No. 04/2017.
=15-

Oral Evidences :-

PW-1, Suniti Das.

PW-2, Sibani Das.

PW-3, Chadan Das. —
PW-4, Anjan Das.

PW-5, Rono Bijay Malakar.
PW-6, Uttam Das.

PW-7, Sipra Das.

PW-8, Pijush Kanti Roy.
PW-9, Mukut Hazarika.

Documentary Evidences :-

Ext.-1, Ejahar.

Ext.-2, Medical report.
Ext.-3, Laboratory report.
Defence evidences:
DW-1, Ujjal Das.

DW-2, Jyotish Chandra Das.

Jo \S"
\\.
Special Judge,
Hailakandi.

SPECIAL JUDGB
HAILAKANDI
