IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON

Sessions (Spl.) Case No.11/2016
U/S 341 IPC, R/W Section 8 of POCSO Act

Present : Mr. D. K. Das
Sessions Judge, Morigaon.

State of Assam

Vs.
Md. Mubarak Ali kaa aeeceeee Accused
Date of Charge :- 20.07.2016.
Date of recording evidence :- 24.01.2017.
Date of Argument :- 24.01.2017.
Date of Judgment :- 25.01.2017.

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State:- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the accused:- Mr. B. H. Talukdar, Ld. Advocate,

JUDGMENT

In this case, the prosecution has alleged that a 14 (fourteen) years old
girl fell a victim to sexual assault at the hand of accused. The accused is one
Md. Mobarak Ali, son of Late Hussain Ali of village No.1 Naramari, P.S.
Dharamtul, Dist. Morigaon (Assam). The informant Md. Mofij Ali is also a
resident of this village. He is the father of the victim, Miss X (the real name of
the victim kept concealed to save her from infamy). According to the
prosecution, on 01.10.2015 at around 5.30/6.00 P.M., while the victim girl along
with her friend after visiting house of their relative were returning back home by
a village road, then the above — named accused accosted them on the village

road and gave some hints of sexual acts. The victim and her friend
ignored such hints and they continued going towards their house. Then, the
above-named accused caught hold of the hand of the victim, dragged her by
the road side, posted kisses on her face and touched her private parts.
Thereafter, the victim and her friend raised hulla, then the accused fled away
from the spot. After two days of the occurrence of incident, the informant went
to Dharamtul P.S. and he lodged an F.I.R. On the basis of which, the O/C
Dharamtul P.S. registered a case vide Dharamtul P.S. Case No.103/15, U/s 341
IPC, read with Section 8 of the POCSO Act.

The investigation was set in motion. During the course of investigation,
the I.O. visited the place of occurrence, examined the victim as well as other
material witnesses and also got the victim medically examined and got her
statement recorded U/s 164 Cr.P.C. The I.O. during the course of investigation
failed to arrest the accused. Thereafter, the I.0. collected the medical report
and upon completion of investigation, he submitted charge-sheet against the
above-named accused with allegation of offences punishable U/s 341 of IPC,
read with Section 8 of POCSO Act showing the accused as absconder. After
submitting charge-sheet, the accused was surrendered before the learned Court
and subsequently, he was let off on court bail and thereafter, the present
accused attended before the Ld. Court and he was furnished with copies of
relevant documents as mandated U/s 207 Cr.P.C. Thereafter, the Ld. Court
below committed the case to this Court by finding it to be exclusively triable by
this Court. On receipt of the case record and after having heard Ld. Counsel of
both sides and basing upon materials on record my learned predecessor framed
charges U/s 341 of IPC, read with Section 8 of POCSO Act, which were read
over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded innocence and claimed
to be tried.

2. Point for determination :

(i) Whether the above-named accused on the eventful day i.e. on
01.10.2015 at about 6.00 P.M. at village No.1 Naramari under
Dharamtul P.S. in the district of Morigaon, wrongfully restrained the

victim on the village road ?
(ii) Whether on the same day, time & place committed sexual assault on
the victim i.e. Miss — X, a minor girl, aged about 14 years by forcibly

committing sexual intercourse with her ?

3. In this case prosecution has examined only 2 (two) PWs, the most
material witnesses of this case, the informant as PW-1 and the victim as
PW-2. But their evidence does not support the prosecution case on material
aspects. In such circumstances, prosecution has not willing to examine the
remaining witnesses and at the instance of the prosecution its evidence
stands closed. Having found no incriminating materials against the accused,
the examination of accused as warranted U/s 313 Cr.P.C. was dispensed

with for ends of justice. The accused declined to adduce defence evidence.

4. I have heard argument so advanced by Ld. Counsel of both sides.

Considering the evidence on record, I have come to the following decisions.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5. In this case, it is alleged by the prosecution that on the eventful
day the above-named accused wrongfully restrained the victim and took her
to the side of a village road and committed sexual assault upon her.

To prove this fact, the prosecution initially examined PW-1, the
informant. He in his evidence has stated that the victim Miss- X is his
daughter and the accused is his nephew. According to him, the occurrence
took place about one year ago and on the eventful day, his daughter i.e. the
victim was coming back to her house from the house of her maternal uncle
and on the way, the victim met the accused, then, the accused scolded her
for loitering in the evening, so, a quarrel took place between them.
Thereafter, his daughter i.e. the victim came back to the house and reported
the matter to her mother. PW-1 has further stated that finally he got to
know about the incident and also heard that his daughter, the victim cried,
when the accused restrained her on the way to home. Therefore, he lodged

the case against the accused. He proved Ext.1 the ejahar and Ext.1
(1) is his signature thereon. In his cross — examination, he has stated that
there was previous dispute between them i.e. the informant and the
accused. PW-1 has further stated that the accused did not commit any
illegal act with his daughter (the victim) and he does not know the contents
of the ejahar, as the ejahar was written by someone else, he only put his
Signature thereon. PW-1 has further stated in his cross-examination that he
lodged the case out of misunderstanding and according to him, the accused

is innocent and he did nothing wrong to her daughter.

6. PW-2, the victim girl, she in her evidence has stated that the
informant is her father and the accused is her cousin. On the particular day,
in the evening hour, she was coming towards her house from the house of
her maternal uncle and on the way, she met the accused. According to her,
while the accused had seen her loitering on the road in the evening hour, he
rebuked her and then a quarrel took place between them. Thereafter, on
reaching her house, she reported the incident to her mother and then her
mother entered into a quarrel with the accused. Thereafter, her father
lodged a case against the accused. In her cross-examination, she has stated
that the accused did not commit any illegal act with her, he simply scolded
her, as she was loitering on the road in the evening hour. Her father lodged
the case against the accused out of anguish and misunderstanding.
According to PW-2 i.e. the victim, the accused is innocent and he did
nothing any illegal act as alleged in the F.I.R. upon her.

Thus, we have found that none of these two vital PWs (i.e.
complainant and victim) uttered a single word as regards sexual assault
being allegedly committed by the accused and also the allegations as alleged
in the F.L.R.

Vs Considering the evidence on record, we have found that the material
part of the prosecution case remained un-substantiated, as the victim
herself stated that the accused did nothing wrong to her. So, we have found
that the most material witness of this case as PW-1 & PW-2 did

not support the prosecution allegation in its material aspects. Section 232

Cr.P.C. mandates an acquittal of the accused from an offence, which states
that “ If, after taking the evidence for the prosecution, examining the
accused and hearing the prosecution and the defence on the point, the
Judge considers that there is no evidence that the accused committed the
offence, the Judge shall record an order of acquittal.”

8. In view of the above discussion and in view of Section 232 Cr.P.C.,
I have found that the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the
accused beyond any reasonable doubt. In the result, the accused is not
found guilty for the offences punishable U/s 341 of IPC, read with Section 8
of POCSO Act and as such, he is acquitted and set at liberty.

Judgment is delivered and pronounced in the open Court on this 25" day

of January, 2017 under my hand and seal.

Dictated & corrected by me Sessions Judge

ODO FIN WnN KS [>

Morigaon.

APPENDIX

. Prosecution witness
. PW-1 :- Md. Mafiz Ali,
PW-2 :- Miss Salma Sultana,
. Defence witness : Nil.
. Prosecution Exhibit :
. Ext.1 :- the ejahar.
. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

Sessions Judge,

Morigaon.
