IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present:

 

Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 33(DH)/ 2018.
U/S 366/376 of IPC R/W Sec 4 of POCSO Act

The State of Assam
~ Versus ~

Shri Hira Chutia,

S/O Lt. Dambaru Chutia,

R/O Ghatapara Itakhuli Gaon,
P.S. Dhakuakhana,

Dist.- Dhemaji.

Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla,
Public Prosecutor

Shri G. Handique, Advocate

Date of prosecution evidence

Date of argument

Date of Judgment

amiecnirsiateecndl Accused Person

a For the State

snavente For the Accused

: 15-07-2019.

: 15-07-2019.

: 24-07-2019.
JUDGMENT
Brief Facts:
Zi The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 01-03-2018 complainant-Smt.

‘Dipti Chowkham lodged an ejahar at Dhemaji Police Station alleging interalia
that on 20-02-2018 at about 8.30 AM in the morning while her minor daughter-
Smti ‘Xx’ (real name is withheld) aged about 16 years, was going to Dhemaji Girls
College, the accused-Hira Chutia took away her from the road of Dhemaji Town
and kept her confined in an unknown place for 8/ 9 days. Upon search, they
came to know that the victim girl had been kept in the house of the accused.

é: On receipt of the ejahar, Police registered a case vide Dhemaji P.S. Case
No. 81/2018 u/s 366(A) of IPC. Police started investigation and on completion of
investigation submitted Charge-sheet against the accused Hira Chutia u/s
366/376 of IPC showing him as absconder.

3 On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the accused, this
Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing both the sides,
framed charges u/s 366/376 of IPC read with Sec. 4 of POCSO Act and read-over
and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The prosecution, in order to
prove its case, examined 2 witnesses. At the closure of the prosecution evidence
statement of the accused person was recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of
total denial. However, the defence adduced no evidence in support of his
defence.

4. Points for determination :

(1) That, on 20-02-2018 at about 8.30 AM at Dhemaji Town under
Dhemaji Police Station, you kidnapped/abducted Smt. ‘x’, a minor girl aged about
17 years with intent that she might be compelled to marry you against her will,
or that she might be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby you
committed an offence punishable u/s 366 of IPC.

(2) That, on the same day at same time and thereafter you committed
rape on Smti ‘X’, a minor girl having sexual intercourse against her will and
consent and thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 376 of IPC.
(3) That you, on the same day at same time and thereafter committed
penetrative sexual assault on Smt. ‘X’, a minor girl aged about 17 years, and
thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s 4 of POCSO Act.

5. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard arguments of both
sides.

Discussion of evidence :

 

6. PW1 Smt. ‘X’ (victim) stated that complainant is her mother. She
knows the accused-Hira Chutia. The incident took place about one year back
(from the date of her recording evidence). She had love affairs with the accused.
One day she eloped with the accused without the knowledge of her parents. Her
parents were upset and lodged complaint before the Police. However, due to
some reasons she decided not to stay with the accused and she came back home.
Since she had love affairs with the accused, she does not want to proceed against
the accused and her parents also agreed not to proceed against him (accused).

In cross-examination PW1 stated that she has no objection if the accused
is acquitted in this case.

es PW2 Smti Dipti Chowkham stated that she is the complainant. She
knows the accused. Victim Smt. ‘x’ is her daughter. The incident took place about
one year back (from the date of her deposition). Her daughter had love affairs

pv with the accused. One day she (victim) eloped with the accused without their
it \ knowledge. They were very upset and lodged complaint before the Police.
am However, her daughter (victim) came back home and she stated that she had

Special Judge, realized her mistake and also stated that the accused did not destroy her chastity.
Dhemali.
At the time of occurrence, she (victim) was aged about 19 years. Exhibit-1 is the

ejahar and Ext-1(1) is her signature.

In cross-examination PW1 stated that she has no objection if the accused
is acquitted in this case.
Appreciation of evidence :

8. From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that in this case
the victim Smt. ‘x’ and the complainant-Smt Dipti Chowkham, who is the mother
of the victim, were examined as P.W-1 and PW2 respectively. In their evidence
this two vital witnesses stated that the victim (PW1) had love affairs with the
accused and one day the victim eloped with the accused without the knowledge
of her parents for which they were very upset and lodged complaint against the
accused before police. However, the victim (PW1) came back home and she
stated that she had realized her mistake and she further Stated that the accused
did not destroy her chastity. The victim also stated that at the relevant time of
accident, she was aged about 19 years. In cross-examination both the P.Ws.
stated that they have no objection if the accused is acquitted in this case.
Prosecution side declined to examine the remaining witnesses on the ground that
€xamination of other witnesses will not improve the prosecution case at all.

9. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is no
incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the alleged
offences. This is a case of no evidence. It is also seen from the evidence of the
PWs- 1 and 2 that both the parties have compromised the case outside the Court
and hence they have not deposed against the accused person. I find that the
Prosecution has totally failed to prove the charges u/s 366/376 of IPC read with
sec. 4 of POCSO Act against the accused.

10. In view of the above, I find the accused-Hira Chutia not guilty u/s
366/376 of the I.P.C. read with section- 4 of POCSO Act. Accordingly, he is
acquitted of the charges leveled against him. Set him at liberty forthwith.

11. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.

12. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 24 day of

July/2019.
947/207
S. Das )

“Bees dudge,
Dhenapii.
