IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE trtirstirssinnsstrititzit: BILASIPARA

Present:- Shri J. Borah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Bilasipara.

Special (POCSO) Case No- 06 of 2019

u/s 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act.

State of Assam

-Vs-
Siddique Ali
eseeeeeeees accused person

Date of framing charge ‘= 02-04-2019
Date of recording evidence _ :- 17-05-2019

18-06-2019

10-07-2019

03-10-2019

10-01-2020
Date of Argument I 11-02-2020
Date of Judgment i 17-02-2020
Advocates Appeared:
For the State of Assam :- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Ld. Addl. P.P

for the State of Assam.

For the defence :- Mr. Dipan Kr. Nath,

Ld. Advocate for the defence.
JUDGMENT

1. This case is under section 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act. So, the name of the victim is not mentioned and she is,
hereinafter, referred to ‘x’.

Contd. to page no. 2
[2]

2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Momina Bibi, the informant
lodged an ezahar with the in-charge, Nayahat Police Out Post on 24-06-2015
informing that ‘x’ is the daughter of the informant. Sahena Banu is another
daughter of the informant. On 24-06-2015 at about 09.00 A.M ‘x’ took
Sahena Banu to No. 1927 Nayahat L.P School as Sahena Banu was
appearing examination. After end of the examination of Sahena Banu, the
accused called ‘x’ and asked to broom the school room. When ‘x’ was
brooming, the accused Siddique Ali touched the breast of ‘x’ and also
attempted to commit rape on her. ‘x’, after her arrival at house, told the
informant about the occurrence.

So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against the
accused Siddique Ali.
3. The Nayahat Police Out Post received the ezahar vide GDE no. 379
dated 24-06-2015 and forwarded to the Bilasipara police station. The
Bilasipara police station received the ezahar and registered as Bilasipara
police station case no. 748/2015 under section 8 of Protection of Children
from Sexual Offences Act. The case was investigated and having found
prima facie under section 8 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Act against the accused Siddique Ali, laid the charge sheet before the court
for trial.
4. The accused Siddique Ali, hereinafter called the accused, appeared in
this case. The accused was furnished copy. Charge was framed under
section 10 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, POCSO Act in
short, against the accused. The charge was read over and explained to the
accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
5. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against the

accused, examined 10 (ten) witnesses, namely-

1. Momina Bibi P.W-1
2. Sadek Ali P.W-2
3. ‘x’/the victim P.W-3
4. Sangeeta Gogoi Ray P.W-4
5. Abdul Malek P.W-5
6. Atowar Rahman P.W-6
7. Monowara Khatun P.W-7
8. Sekendar Ali P.W-8

Contd. to page no. 3
[3]

9. Dewan Harmuz Ali P.W-9
10. Muktazur Rahman P.W-10
6. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C and his statement was

recorded where he denied all allegations levelled against him in the evidence

adduced by the prosecution witnesses and also declined to adduce evidence

in defence.
7. Heard argument for both sides.
8. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

i. Whether accused on 24-06-2015 at about 09.00 A.M at 1927 No.
Nayahat L.P School under Bilasipara police station, committed
aggravated sexual assault on ‘x’, under the age of 12 years old by
touching on her breast and thereby committed offence u/s 10 of
POCSO Act?

DECISION AND REASONS THERE OF

9. In this prosecution case P.W-1 Momina Bibi is the informant, P.W-2
Sadek Ali is the husband of the informant, P.W-3 ‘x’ is the alleged victim.
P.W-4 Sangeeta Gogoi Ray, P.W-5 Abdul Malek, P.W-6 Atowar Rahman,
P.W-7 Monowara Khatun, P.W-8 Sekendar Ali are independent witnesses.
P.W-9 Dewan Harmuz Ali and P.W-10 Muktazur Rahman are investigating
officers.

10. Since P.W-1 Momina Bibi is the informant and P.W-3 ‘x’ is the alleged
victim, so, both are the prime witnesses in this case. Let see the evidence of
this two witnesses at first.

11. P.W-1 Momina Bibi has stated in her evidence that she is the
informant in this case. She lodged the ezahar against the accused. ‘x’ is her
daughter. ‘x’ is 15 years old. ‘x’ was a student of Nayahat L.P School at the
time of occurrence. On 24-06-2015 it was raining. On that day ‘x’ went to
Nayahat L.P School to keep her sister Sahena Banu at School. Sahena Banu
was also student of the said school. When ‘x’ went to school, the accused
asked her to broom the school room. When ‘x’ was brooming, the accused
touched her breast. ‘x’ told the said occurrence to the informant. She told

her husband about the occurrence. Her husband went to school but the

Contd. to page no. 4
[4]

school had already ended. Accordingly, he went to the Headmistress of the
school. The Headmistress asked him to meet the president of the school.
When he informed the president, the president asked both the accused and
‘x’. The accused admitted the occurrence. Accordingly, she lodged the
ezahar Ext-1. Ext-1(1) is her signature.

In her cross P.W-1 has stated that ‘x’ was only 11 (eleven) years old.

There were students, teachers and guardians at the school at the time of
examination. She does not know whether ‘x’ told others about the
occurrence. P.W-1 has denied that the Headmistress was not informed about
the occurrence. The accused also lodged an ezahar against her. She also
denied that she lodged a false case against the accused.
12. P.W-3 ‘x’ has stated in her evidence that the informant is her
mother. She knows the accused. The accused is their teacher. She was only
11 (eleven) years old at the time of occurrence. On the day of examination
there was examination of her sister Sahena Bibi. So, she went to school to
keep her sister at school. She kept her sister and she was playing outside
the school. The accused asked her to clean the room by brooming. The
school was closed after end of examination. She was brooming the school
room. The accused touched her breast when she was brooming and
attempted to commit rape on her. She then left then and there. She went
home and told her mother other about the occurrence. Her mother told
about the incident to her father. She with her parents went to then Head
Mistress. The Headmistress asked them to meet the president of school. The
president asked them to go to school. The accused admitted before the
president about the occurrence. She gave statement before the Magistrate,
Ext-2 is her statement. Ext-2(1)(2) are her signature.

In her cross P.W-3 has stated that she was in the class V at the time
of occurrence. The examination of Sahena Banu started at 09.00 A.M and
ended at 11 2-12.00 P.M. There were students and teachers at school. She
was brooming till end of examination. It took time Y2 hours to broom the
room. She did not raise hue and cry out of fear. She did not tell anyone
about the occurrence. She denied that her father sought for a sack of rice
from the accused and when the accused did not given, her father lodged this
case against the accused. She denied that she has adduced false evidence

against the accused.

Contd. to page no. 5
[5]

13. Thus, minute scrutiny of evidence of P.W-1 Momina Begum and P.W-
3 ‘x’ it appears that P.W-1 is only informant. She lodged the ezahar only
after getting the information from her daughter ‘x’.

Now let’s see what she got to know from her daughter. In the ezahar
P.W-1 scribed that after end of the school, the accused sent Sahena Bibi to
her house and she asked ‘x’ for brooming the class room and the accused
taking advantage of absence of other people he touched the breast of ‘x’.

But in her evidence P.W-1 has stated that when ‘x’ went school, the
accused asked her for brooming. When ‘x’ was brooming, the accused
touched her breast. The evidence of P.W-1 does not divulge when the
occurrence took place either at early stage of school or at end of school. The

excerpt of evidence of P.W-1 is as such-
“ wifemt Belt Ave mms Fits eieicr wifes aw ae aifadeet PA

| wifemt 1S ae ais ative Pike atelier wide qpw ate Mit 1”

 

 

Thus, the evidence of P.W-1 is not clear when the occurrence took
place. But the evidence says that the occurrence took place when ‘x’ reached
at school. In such a situation, her evidence is contradictory with her previous
statement made in the ezahar Ext-1.

Secondly, according to P.W-3 ‘x’, the accused asked her for brooming
after end of school when all the students and teachers departed school.

This evidence can be authenticated by the evidence of other
witnesses namely the teacher who were present at school on the very day.

P.W-4 Sangeeta Gogoi Ray is a school teacher of Nayahat L.P School.
According to her, the examination was from 09.00 A.M to 12.00 P.M. After
end of examination, she along with Monowara Khatun and the accused left
the school. She did not see ‘x’.

Thus, the evidence of P.W-4 shows that the accused left the school
with her colleagues namely Sangeeta Gogoi Ray and Monowara Khatun.

P.W-7 Monowara Khatun is another school teacher of the said school.
According to P.W-7 on the day of alleged occurrence there was examination
of class 1 and 2. No incident took place during examination. After
examination, she with Sangeeta Gogoi Ray and the accused left the school
closing the gate of the school. She did not see ‘x’ within school campus.

Thus, the evidence of P.W-7 also makes it clear that she along with

Contd. to page no. 6
[6]

her colleagues Sangeeta Gogoi Ray and the accused left school after end of
school closing the gate.

In such a situation, the evidence of P.W-3 that the accused asked ‘x’
to clean the school room by brooming after end of school is not supported
by P.W-4 and P.W-7.

If it is accepted that the occurrence took place at the early stage of
examination. But P.W-3 has clearly stated in her evidence that many
students and teachers were present at school. In such a position, the
accused would touched the breast of ‘x’ cannot be accepted.

14. Thus, the evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-3 is not free from doubt.
Rather the evidence of P.W-1 is contradictory and the evidence of P.W-3 is
not authenticated by the independent witnesses.

15. Now next question is whether the accused admitted his guilt before
the president of the school.

Both P.W-1 and P.W-3 have stated in their respective evidence that
there was a meeting at school and the accused admitted his guilt before the
president of the school.

P.W-6 Atowar Rahman was the president of the school at the time of
occurrence. According to P.W-6, one Sadek Ali wanted a school certificate
from him. He with Sadek Ali went to school. He along with Sadek Ali,
Momina Bibi, ‘x’ and two other members of the school were present. The
accused brought the book of certificates. But Momina Bibi told that they
wanted no certificate, but they brought an allegation that the accused
touched the breast of her daughter. Momina Bibi strangled the neck of ‘x’
and asked the accused to admit his guilt. But the accused did not admit his
guilt.

P.W-8 Sekendar Ali has also not stated in his evidence that the
accused admitted his guilt in the presence of the president.

Thus, the evidence of P.W-6 Atowar Rahman shows that Momina
Bibi, the mother of ‘x’ forced the accused to admit his guilt. But inspite of her
force, the accused did not admit guilt. P.W-8 who was present at the school
has not stated the accused admitted his guilt.

16. Now let see the evidence of P.W-2 Sadek Ali, the father of ‘x’.

According to P.W-2 Sadek Ali, he is the father of ‘x’. On the day of

occurrence he went outside to work. His daughter Sahena had examination.

Contd. to page no. 7
[7]

‘x’, his another daughter had no examination. ‘x’ went school to keep his
sister at school. He was called by his wife and when he came home, his
daughter told him that the accused touched her breast and also attempted
to commit rape on her. Accordingly he went to the house of Headmistress of
the school. The Headmistress asked him to meet the president of the school.
The President and some other persons came to school. The accused
admitted his guilt. His wife, thereafter, lodged the ezahar against the
accused.

In his cross P.W-2 has stated that he got to know about the

occurrence from his wife. P.W-2 has denied that he sought for a sack of rice
from the accused and when the accused refused to give, he lodged this false
case against the accused.
17. Thus, careful scrutiny of evidence of P.W-2 shows that he got to
know about the occurrence from his wife. He has not stated the time when
the occurrence took place, whether it was before examination or after end of
examination. So, the evidence of P.W-2 is not specific.

Another aspect is that according to P.W-2, the accused admitted his
guilt before the president. But P.W-6 Atowar Rahman, who is the president
has made it clear in his evidence that the accused did not admit his guilt
though the mother of ‘x’ forced the accused to admit his guilt.

Thus, the evidence of P.W-2 that the accused admitted his guilt is not

supported by P.W-6 Atowar Rahman, the president of the school. The
evidence of P.W-2, thus, is found not free from doubt.
18. P.W-9 Dewan Harmuz Ali is the investigating officer. He investigated
the case. He visited the place of occurrence, drew a sketch map, Ext-3. P.W-
10 Muktazur Rahman is another investigating officer. He, on the basis of the
investigation done by P.W-9, prepared the chargesheet Ext-4.

According to P.W-9, ‘x’ did not state before him that the occurrence
took place after end of school. P.W-1 Momina Bibi stated before him that the
occurrence took place before the commencement of the examination.

Thus, the evidence of P.W-9 shows some contradiction between the
evidence P.W-1 and the statement given before P.W-9. It also appears some
contradiction between the evidence of P.W-3 ‘x’ and the statement given
before P.W-9.

19. Situated thus, the prosecution evidence projected by the prosecution

Contd. to page no. 8
[8]

is not free from doubt. The witnesses namely P.W-1, P.W-2 and P.W-3 are of
one family. Their evidence is not supported by any independent witnesses
namely P.W-4, P.W-5, P.W-6, P.W-7 and P.W-8. The evidence of P.W-1 and
P.W-3 is also contradictory. The said evidence of P.W-1, P.W-2 and P.W-3 is
not free from doubt. The prosecution evidence is found not sufficient and
reliable to prove the offences as alleged against the accused. The
prosecution case is dearth of merit.
20. The prosecution has failed to prove it’s case u/s 10 of POCSO Act
against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.
21. Held, the accused is not guilty u/s 10 of POCSO Act.
22. The accused is acquitted and set at liberty.

The bail bond of accused stands cancelled and the bailor is
discharged from all liabilities.

The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal by this court on this 17" day of
February, 2020 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Shri J. Borah)
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Transcribed & typed by,
S. Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

P.W-1 Momina Bibi

P.W-2 Sadek Ali

P.W-3 ‘x’/the victim

P.W-4 Sangeeta Gogoi Ray
P.W-5 Abdul Malek

P.W-6 Atowar Rahman

Contd. to page no. 9
[9]

P.W-7 Monowara Khatun

P.W-8 Sekendar Ali

P.W-9 Dewan Harmuz Ali

P.W-10 Muktazur Rahman

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS :-
Ext-1 Ezahar,
Ext-2 Statement of ‘x’ recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,
Ext-3 Sketch Map,
Ext-4 Charge sheet.

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT WITNESS fs NIL
COURT EXHIBITS i NIL

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
