eCourtIS Copy

IN THE COURT OF ADDL SPECIAL JUDGE ::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,
Addl. Special Judge
Kokrajhar.

SPECIAL CASE NO.24/2017
U/S.364(A)/34/1.P.C.

STATE OF ASSAM
Vs

Sri Azizul Hoque

S/O Abdul Jalil Anmed
village Padmabil,
Gossaingaon

beneaees Accused person.
Appearance: -

Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Manjit Ghosh, Special P.P
Learned Counsel for the defence Mr. Iqbal Ahmed

Charge framed on 26.11.2018
Evidence recorded on 4.1.2019, 21.1.2019
Argument heard on 21.1.2019
Judgment pronounced on 21.1.2019
UDGMENT
1. The case of the prosecution is that on 19.5.2017 one Md. Anowar

Hussain lodged a writen FIR at Sapkata Police Out-post alleging that
accused Azizul Hoque, Head-master of Goladangi M.E. Madrassa, had

dragged and kissed victim No. 1 and victim No. 2 while they were going to
eCourtIS Copy
attend to their classes. The FIR was registered at Gosaingaon Police Station
for offences under Section 354/354A(i)(ii) IPC read with Section 4 of the

Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 and investigated.

2. After completion of the investigation, a charge sheet was laid against
the accused Azizul Hoque for commission of offence U/S 354/354A IPC read

with Section 8 of the POCSO Act.

3. The accused person was summoned and on his appearance, copies
of the relevant documents were furnished to him. After hearing both the
sides charges under Section 8 of the POCSO Act was framed against the

accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to trial.

4. In the course of trial prosecution examined 4 witnesses. At the
closure of prosecution evidence, the accused person was examined U/S
313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial and the accused

declined to adduce any evidence.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION $:-

(i) Whether the accused is guilty of offence under Section 8 of

the POCSO Act?

DECISION AND REASONS :

5. Pw 1 is the victim No. 1 of this case and she deposed that the
incident occured about 1 year back. On that day, after the morning prayers,
she along with some her friends were talking. At that time the accused

came and slapped her on my back (the victim refers the area just below her
eCourtIS Copy
neck) and asked her to go inside the class room. She then went to her class
room. She also deposed that her father lodged the case against the
accused and that she was produced before the Magistrate for her

statement under Section 164 CrPC.

6. In cross-examination she deposed that she had given the

statement under Section 164 CrPC, under the instigation of villagers.

Ts Pw 2 is the other victim of the case and she deposed on the identical
lines to that of pw 1. According to pw 2 the incident occured about 1 year
back and on that day after the morning prayers her friend informed her that
after morning prayers while she was talking with some friends the accused
came and slapped her on her back and asked her to go inside the class

room.

8. In cross-examination she deposed that accused did not commit any
bad act with her and that she has personally not seen the occurrence which

took place with respect to victim No. 1.

9. Pw 3 is the father of the victim No. 1 and he deposed that when he
came to know that acccused has beaten his daughter, the victim No. 1, he

lodged the FIR out of anger.

10. The evidence reproduced above shows that no elements of the
offence under Section 8 of the POCSO Act or for that matter any other
offence is available. The prosecution witnesses do not support the charge

against the accused.
eCourtIS Copy

11. The point for determination is answered in negative.

ORDER
Accused Azizul Hoque is acquitted of the charge under
Section 8 of the POCSO Act and set at liberty forthwith.
Bail bonds shall remain valid for six months.
Given under the hand and seal of this Court on this 21*

day of January,2019.

Dictated by

Addl. Special Judge Addl Special Judge
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
eCourtIS Copy

Appendix

1. Prosecution Exhibits :-

Exhibit-1
Exhibit-2
Exhibit-3
Exhibit-4

2. Defence Exhibit

3. Prosecution Witness

P.W.1
P.W.2
P.W.3
P.W.4

4.Defence Witness

5. Court witness

Statement of victim
Statement of victim
FIR

Charge sheet

Nil

Victim
Victim
Father of the victim
ASI Dimbeswar Das

Nil

Nil

Addl. Special Judge(FTC),
Kokrajhar
