Page 1 of 8

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 90 of 2018

Under section 4 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of G. R Case No. 4313 of 2018)

State of Assam

-Vs-
Md. Javed Mansuri @ Jabed Ali ... Accused Person

Present : Smti I. Barman, AJS
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State : Mr. M.C. Baruah, Public
Prosecutor.
For the accused : |. Ansari,,Advocate
Date of Argument \ 23-09-2019.
Date of Judgment : 23-09-2019.
JUDGMENT
iL. On receipt of the verbal information from PW1 the victim's

mother that on 29-10-18 at around 6 P.M., while her daughter aged
about 13 years was returning from shop, on her way accused Javed
Mansuri gagging her mouth had taken her to a godown and raped
her, O/C of Dhekiajuli PS made the GDE No. 827 dated 30.10.18
and registered a case being Dhekiajuli PS Case No. 830/18 u/s
376/109 of the IPC read with section 4/6 of POCSO Act and

 
Page 2 of 8

endrosed SI Cheniram Gogoi to investigate the case. During
investigation, the Investigating Officer (PW 5) recorded the
statement of the informant at the police station, visited the place
of occurrence, prepared the sketch map, recorded the statement of
the witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got
recorded the statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.PC and submitted
chargesheet against the accused Javed Mansuri u/s 4/6 of POCSO
Act.

3. On appearance of the accused person before this Court,
furnishing necessary copies as required u/s 207 of Cr.P.C. and after
hearing both parties, charge was framed u/s 4 of POCSO Act
against the accused Md. Javed Mansuri @ Jabed Ali and particulars
of the charge on being read over and explained to the accused
person, he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined six numbers
of witnesses. In statement recorded u/s 313 Cr.PC,\the accused
denied all the allegations leveled against him ‘and declined to

adduce evidence.

5. | haveeheard the argument of learned counsel of both
sides and also have.gone through the materials on record.

6. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) Whether the accused Md. Javed Mansuri @ Jabed
Ali on 29-10-2018 at around 7 p.m. at Medhi Chuburi
under Dhekiajuli Police Station committed
penetrative sexual assault on the minor girl Miss
“X”, and thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 4 of POCSO Act.
Page 3 of 8

Discussions, Decisions and reasons thereof :

 

7. In order to appreciate the argument advanced on behalf of
both the sides, it is considered next to outline a sketch of the

evidence on record.

8. PW 1 the informant as well as mother of the victim deposed
that on the day of the incident at about 6 PM, when her daughter
was returning from a shop, the accused proposed to love her. At
that time seeing her daughter talking with the accused, the
villagers raised hulla. Hearing hulla when she rushed to the place
of occurrence had found her daughter talking with the accused.
Then on being asked by villagers, she informed police. During
cross, she stated that she knew that no any bad act wasycommitted
to her daughter but finding her daughter talking with\the accused,
she got angry and as asked by the villagers informed the police.

9. PW2 the victim 'Miss«’ ineher evidence stated that on the
day of the incident vafter..the accused proposed her, while she
started talking with him,“her mother reached there. She informed
her motherregarding proposal of the accused. At that time many
persons.gathered there and then being angry her mother informed
police. During cross she stated that when she reported that
accused proposed to love her, villagers asked her mother to file a
case alleging rape and as tutored by villagers she she gave false
statement before the Magistrate. She proved her statement u/s
164 Cr.PC as Ext.1.

10. PWS the victim's father stated that his wife reported him that
when his daughter was returning from shop, the accused
committed bad act on his daughter. But lateron he came to know
that the allegation was fasle, actually seeing his daughter talking
with the accused, the villagers raised hulla and then his wife being
angry informed the police.
Page 4 of 8

11. PW4 Dr. Sikha Das, the medical officer in her evidence
stated that on 01-11-18, in reference to Dhekiajuli PS Case No.
830/18 u/s 376/109 of IPC read with section 4/6 of POCSO Act, she
examined the victim 'Miss X' who gave history of sexual assault by
acccused Javed Mansuri on 29-10-18 and found minor abrasion on
lower lip and mild tenderness on left upper arm. As per radiological
examination, age of the victim is above 16 years and below 18
years.

12. The evidence of the PW5, the investigating officer Cheniram
Gogoi is formal in nature. He visited the place of occurrence,
recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for
medical examination, got recorded her statement u/s 164. Cr.PC
and submitted chargesheet against the accused Javed Mansuri u/s
4/6 of POCSO Act. During cross he stated that regarding the
incident no written FIR was lodged and investigation was done on
the basis of the GD Entry made on-receiptof verbal information.

13. PW6 Mahendra Mohan Patowary the then O/C of Dhekiajuli PS
on receipt of verbal information from PW1 that on 29-10-18 at
around 6\p.m, while her victim daughter was returning from shop,
on her way accused Javed Mansuri gagging her mouth had taken
her to a godown and raped her, he made the GDE no. 827 dated
30.10.18 and on the basis of said verbal information registered the
case being Dhekiajuli PS Case No. 830/18 u/s 376/109 IPC read with
section 4/6 of POCSO Act.

14. Inthe case the victim and her parents claimed her age as 14
years and the medical evidence reveals that the victim was above
16 years and below 18 years of age. Age of the victim is not in
dispute in the case. In the above evidence, | unhesitatingly held
that in any case the victim girl is minor below the age of 18 years
and is a child as defined u/s 2 (d) of POCSO Act.

 
Page 5 of 8

15. Now,let us see whether the accused committed any offence.On
careful perusal of the record it reveals that on receipt of the verbal
information from the victim's mother (PW1), the case was
registered and no formal FIR was lodged. Though as per the verbal
information of the victim's mother, on the day of the incident when
the victim was returning from a shop, accused Javed Mansuri
gagging her mouth, had taken her to a godown situated in the
premises of Allaudin and forcefully committed her rape, but in her
deposition she did not make any such statement. Rather she
deposed that on the day of the incident when her daughter was
returning from a shop, on the way accused proposed her but seeing
them talking, the villagers raised hulla and then she being angry,
as asked by the villagers informed police. Undoubtedly tn ‘the
instant case PW2 the victim is the star witness. She \ close“as the
heels of her mother's evidence, categorically stated that on the
day, when she was returning.1ome from shop accused Javed
Mansuri proposed her love and. was talking with her and then
seeing them talking;her mother got angry and informed the police.
She admitted that when she reported that the accused proposed
hers, the villagers asked her mother to file a case alleging rape
against the accused and on being tutored by the villagers, she also
gave statement before the Magistrate. PW3 the victim's father
though stated that accused Javed Mansuri committed bad act on
his daughter, but at the same time also admitted that lateron from
his wife heard that finding their victim daughter talking with the
accused, the villagers raised hulla and then his wife being angry
informed police.

16. In a POCSO case, the evidence of the victim is the most vital.
The evidence of the victim clearly reveals that the accused
proposed her love and seeing her talking with the accused on the
road, the villagers raised hulla and then her mother (PW1) being

 
Page 6 of 8

angry informeded the police. The version of the victim and other
PWs well established that on the day of incident, the accused
proposed her and finding the victim talking with the accused, the
villagers advised the mother of the victim to file a false case
against the accused alleging rape. Though as per medical report,
the victim sustained some minor abrasion on the lower lip and mild
tenderness of left upper arm but, the victim during deposition did
not state that the accused caused her hurt in any way. Though in
statement u/s 164 Cr.PC (Ext.1) the victim alleged rape but in
evidence she clearly stated she deposed before the Magsitrate as
tutored by the villagers. Law is well settled that statement u/s 164
Cr.PC is not a substantive piece of evidence and as such in absence
of evidence, the statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.PC can not be
considered. In the case at hand, the victim did not mention.at any
point that the accused put any physical or mental force upon her or
did any physial contact with her. The evidence of victim's mother
clearly indicates that the case was, lodged against the accused
solely on the instigation ofthe, villagers: Hence, from the facts,
circumstances and evidence of the Pws we come to a culminative
point that the accused»Javed Mansuri @ Jabed Ali had not
committed.any offence as alleged against him. Rather it can be
said that-he became a scapegoat as a result of expediency based
on false implication and he can not be held guilty for alleged

offence of penetrative sexual assault or any other provision of law.

17. From all the above facts and circumstances of the case
discussed above, | held and decide that the prosecution failed to
prove it’s case beyond all reasonable doubt.

18. Accordingly, accused Md. Javed Mansuri @ Jabed Ali is
acquitted from the charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act and_ set him at
liberty forthwith. His bail bond shall remain in force till next six
months.

 
Page 7 of 8

19. Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the
23" day of September, 2019.

(1.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(1.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Page 8 of 8

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness
No.1
Prosecution Witness
No.2
Prosecution Witness
No.3
Prosecution Witness
No.4
Prosecution Witness
No.5
Prosecution Witness
No.6

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 3
Exhibit 4
Exhibit 5
Exhibit

- Mother of the victim
- The victim
Father of the victim
- Dr. Sikha Das, the Medical Officer.
- Cheniram Gogoi, the investigating

officer.
- Mahendra Mohan Patowary. I.O.

EXHIBITS.

164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.
Medical report..

Sketch.map

Chargesheet

GDE No. 827 dated 30-10-18.

(1.Barman)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
