PAGE NO: 1 SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 16/2018

IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE (FTC),
DARRANG, MANGALDAI.

PRESENT: Mr. J.M.Barman, A.J.S.,

Additional Sessions Judge (FTC),
Darrang, Mangaldai.

Special (POCSO) Case No.16 of 2018.
U/S : 366 (A) I.P.C. R/W 4/6 of POCSO Act

(Pertaining Dhula P.S.Case No. 26/18 u/s 366-A/34 of I.B.C R/W 4/6 of
POCSO Act)

State of Assam
-Versus-

1. Seikh Abdullah,
S/O. Md. Abdush Salam
Vill.- No.1 Kuwari Pukhuri,
P.S. Kharupetia,

Dist.- Darrang (Assam), and

2. Julfikkar,
S/O. Md. Kutub Ali,

Vill.- No.1 Thekerabari,
P.S. Dhula,

District- Darrang (Assam)
ceneeeues Accused persons
APPEARANCE:

Advocate for the State : - Sri Dulal Kr. Ghosh, Addl.P.P.,

Advocate for the accused : - Md. Saidur Rahman and

Smt. Riju Saikia, Advocate

Date of framing charge : - 16-11-2018.

Date of evidence 02-05-2019.

STATE-VS- SKIEKH ABDULLAH
PAGE NO: 2 SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 16/2018

Date of argument : 2.05.19

Date of judgment : 2.05.19

JUDGMENT
PROSECUTION CASE

1. The prosecution story in brief, is that informant Rashida
Begum lodged an F.I.R. with the officer-in-charge, Dhula P.S. on
17-1-2018, alleging that on 02-01-18 while the informant after
attending her classes at Niz-Kharupetia Moriam College, she was
waiting for bus on N.H.15 to return home, at that time the
accused Abdullah who was coming in an Alto vehicle, stopped
near her and asked her to board into that Alto Car. Though she
refused, however, the accused using force had taken her into the
Alto car with an assurance to leave her at her house, but the
accused took her to Mangaldai town and he stopped his Alto Car
near Tangni tea estate. Thereafter he brought out a knife and
kept it on her chest and threatened her to kill. Thereafter, he
tried to remove her wearing apparels and also removed his own
cloth and started to commit rape on her. Accused No.2, the driver
also forced her. While she screamed for help, then some
members of AAMSU came and rescued her. She was afraid to
disclose the matter before her parents, so delay occurred in filing
the F.I.R. Hence this case.
INVESTIGATION

2. After receiving the FI.R. from the informant, the Officer-
in-Charge, Dhula P.S. registered a case as Dhula P.S.Case No.
26/18, U/S. 366-A/34 of IPC R/W Section 4/6 of POCSO Act and
entrusted S.I. Hangsha Nath Thakuria to investigate the case.
Upon completion of investigation, the investigating officer filed

Charge-sheet against the accused Seikh Abdullah and Julfikkar,

STATE-VS- SKIEKH ABDULLAH
PAGE NO: 3 SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 16/2018

U/S. 366-A/34 of the Indian Penal Code R/W Section 4/6 of
POCSO Act.

TRIAL

3. After appearance of the accused person, copies of the
relevant documents were furnished to him and after hearing the
submission of the learned Special P.P. for the State as well as
learned defence counsel on the point of charge and after going
through the relevant documents as furnished by the investigating
officer under section 173 of Cr.P.C, my learned predecessor found
prima facie material against the accused person under section
366-A of IPC Read with section 4/6 of POCSO Act and had framed
charge under the above mentioned offence against the accused
person and contents of the charges were read over and explained
to the accused persons by my learned predecessor to which he

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. The prosecution side has examined only one witness who
is the informant- victim and exhibited two documents in support
of its case. After the examination of the Vitim, learned Addl.P.P
verbally submitted to close the evidence of the prosecution side,
as he declined to adduce any further evidence on behalf of the
prosecution side, as the victim has not supported the prosecution
case. As there is no any incriminating material against the
accused persons, hence statement of the accused persons under

section 313 of Cr.P.C are dispensed with.
Point for determination:

a. Whether the accused persons on or about 02-01-2018 on
No.15 N.H. at Kharupetia under Kharupetia P.S. induced
victim (x) to go from Kharupetia or to do any act with

intent that she may be or knowing that it is likely that she
STATE-VS- SKIEKH ABDULLAH
PAGE NO: 4 SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 16/2018

5.

will be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with them
and thereby committed an offence punishable under
Section 366(A) of Indian Penal Code R/W Section 4/6 of
the POCSO Act ?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF:
I have perused the evidence on record and also heard the
submission of learned defence counsel as well as learned Addl.P.P
for State.

The victim (PW-1) (name withheld due nature of the
offence) is the informant of the instant case. She deposed in her
evidence that she knows accused Abdullah since long back and
she had love affairs with him since she was studying in Class-X.
She has further deposed that while she was studying in Higher
Secondary, her family members decided to solemnize her
marriage with another person. On the day of incident she went to
Kharupetia College and therefrom she went to Tangni in
Abdullah's vehicle and at that time her father witnessing her
travelling in the vehicle of the accused, raised hue and cry and
thereafter took her home from Tangni . Thereafter the members
of AAMSU came to their residence to know about the fact and
instructed them to file the case against the accused persons.
Thereafter, she lodged the ejahar at Dhula Police Station as per
their direction. She exhibited the ejahar as Ext-1 and her
Signature as Ext-1(1). She has further deposed that although she
was brought for medical examination, she had refused to do any
medical examination. Thereafter, she was produced before the
Judicial Magistrate, Mangaldai for recording her statement and
Judicial Magistrate recorded her statement. She exhibited her
statement as Ext-2 and her signature as Ext-2(1) and Ext-2(2).

STATE-VS- SKIEKH ABDULLAH
PAGE NO: 5 SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 16/2018

7. Now, from appreciation of the evidence of the victim, it
reveals that at the time of incident she was aged about 19 years.
The prosecution side has not produced any birth certificate and
school certificate to prove the facts that at the time alleged
incident, victim was a minor. So without any prove of document
from the side of the prosecution it is held that victim at the time

alleged incident was a major girl.

8. Now, while appreciating her evidence before the court,
she has not deposed anything incriminating against the accused
persons. According to her version on the date of occurrence she
first went to her college ie Kharupetia college and from there she
went to Tangi with the accused person in his vehicle. No where
she had deposed that accused person had force her to come with
him in his vehicle from Kharupetia to Tangni. It is evidence of the
victim while her father had seen her inside of the vehicle of the
accused Abdulla along with the accused person, he made hue
and cry due to which vehicle was stopped and her father took her
to her residence. Later on as per instruction of the AMMSU, she

had lodged this case.

9. Now the victim while lodging the ejahar before the police
had narrated a totally different story. As per the content of the
ejahar, while she was waiting for vehicle near Kharupetia College,
accused person forcefully took her inside his vehicle and took her
to tengni and tried to rape her inside the vehicle. While deposing
her statement under section 164 of Cr.P.C she reiterated the same
thing as deposed in her ejahar. But while adducing her evidence
before the court, she put forwarded a totally different story,
which makes her evidence unreliable. There is no any evidence at
all against the accused person regarding kidnapping and tried to

commit rape upon her. Moreover it is proved that under the

STATE-VS- SKIEKH ABDULLAH
PAGE NO: 6 SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 16/2018

influence of organization like AMMSU, she had lodged the case

against the accused persons.

10. Considering all these aspect, in my considered opinion
prosecution side failed to prove the charge against the accused
persons under section 366-A of I.P.C read with section 4/6 of
POCSO Act. Accordingly both the accused persons are acquitted
from the charge levelled against the accused persons under
section 366-A of I.P.C read with section 4/6 of POCSO Act and set
them at liberty forthwith. The bail-Bond of the accused persons
Shall be valid till next six months from the date of delivery of the

instant judgement.

11. Furnish a copy of the judgement to Learned District

Magistrate, Mangaldai as required under section 365 of CR.P.C.
12. Judgement is delivered in the open court.

13. Given under my hand and seal of this court on this 2™ day
of May, 2019 at Mangaldai.

Dictated and corrected by me

Sd-Mr. J.M.Barman
Additional Sessions Judge (FTC),
Darrang,Mangaldai.

Sd-Mr. J.M.Barman
Additional Sessions Judge (FTC),

Darrang,Mangaldai.

Transcribed and typed by me:

Smti S.Devi. (Stenographer).

STATE-VS- SKIEKH ABDULLAH
PAGE NO: 7 SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 16/2018

APPENDIX:

Prosecution witnesses:
PW-1: Rashida Begum (informant-victim)
Prosecution exhibits:
Ext-1: Ejahar.
Ext-2: Statement of the victim recorded U/S. 164 Cr.P.C.
Defence witnesses :
Nil.
Sd-Mr. J.M.Barman

Additional Sessions Judge (FTC),
Darrang, Mangaldai.

STATE-VS- SKIEKH ABDULLAH
