IN THE COURT OF THE DISTRICT & SESSIONS JUDGE CUM
SPECIAL JUDGE-2 (FTC) (POCSO) :: :: TINSUKIA

District: Tinsukia

Present: Md. A. Hakim,
District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC),
(POCSO)Tinsukia.

POCSO Case No. 51(T)/17
U/s 12 OF POCSO Act

The State of Assam

bec eeaeseeaeeeeaeeeaess Complainant.

-Versus -

Sri Jitul Das

S/o- Sri Monohar Das,

R/o- Tingkhong Sitalpur Gaon,
P.S- Philobari,

District- Tinsukia, Assam.

beeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneenens Accused.
Appearance:
Sri B.L Agarwal
Spl. PUblIC PrOS@CULOF ......ceceeeeecseceeeeeeeeeeenees For the Complainant
Sri M.K Singh
PACU Ci sae ss ereoenes cu cemeamans «9 eseeans xx omens 2a rues xo cevmners 13 For the accused.

Date of Argument: 24.01.2019.
Date of Judgment: 24.01.2019.
1.

UDGMENT

The prosecution case in brief is that on 03.08.17 at
about 4:30 P.M at Tingkhang Sitalpur under Philobari PS in the
district of Tinsukia in absence of the informant and his wife
in their house, the accused entered in their house and with
sexual intention, pulled and pushed their minor daughter by
holding her hand. When their co-villagers, Sri Sadananda Das
and Sri Ashim Das saw the incident shouted the accused and
the accused fled away. The informant came to know about
the incident after returning home. He alleged that the
accused tried to fall in love with his minor daughter since
four years and he broke the love relationship at that time.
Hence he lodged the case, for outraging the modesty of his

minor daughter.

Receiving the FIR, Philobari PS. registered a case and
investigated the matter and on completion of the investigation,
charge sheet was submitted against the accused and forwarded
to face the trial.

Upon receiving the record and appearance of the accused
in this court and upon hearing both sides and considering the
materials on record charge u/s 12 of POCSO ACT has_ been
framed, particulars of which on being read over and explained
the accused had pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

During trial, prosecution examined Four (4) witnesses. The
examination of accused u/s 313 CrPCis dispensed with as no
material ingredients of offence is found against the accused.

| have heard argument put forth by the Id. Counsel for both
the sides as well as gone through the entire materials available

on record.
6. POINT FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused on 03.08.17 at about 4:30 P.M
at Tingkhang Sitalpur under Philobari PS in the
district of Tinsukia had committed sexual
harassment upon the victim girl and thereby
committed an offence punishable U/s. 12 of POCSO
ACT or not?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

7.

P.W.1, Sri Niral Das has deposed that he knows the
accused Jitul Das. The victim is his daughter. Now at present
her age is 16 years. The Incident took place nearly two
years back. On the date of incident he alongwith his wife
Smt. Jubati Das had gone to the house of his brother, Sri
Kalia Das @ Jitul Das to prepare knitting apparatus. When he
was there, he_ received information over phone’ from
Debalata Das that something has happened in his house
and asked him to come home immediately. Accordingly, he
alongwith his wife came back to their house. He found that
his daughter, victim was crying and on being asked Debalata
Das told him that the accused had caught hold of his
daughter. On being asked his daughter also told that Jitul
Das had caught hold her hand and tried to drag her. She
also told that the incident was seen by Sadananda Das and
Ashim Das. He called them and they also confirmed that they
had seen the incident but could not apprehend the accused.
Thereafter he went to police station and lodged Ejahar. Ext. 1
is the Ejahar, Ext. 1(1) is his signature. Police had come,
searched for the accused but did not find him. He also sent
the victim for her medical check up at Philobari PHC. The
victim was also produced before magistrate for recording
her statement U/s. 164 Cr.P.C.
8.

10.

In Cross-examination he states that he has not seen the
incident. After the incident, he appeared before the police
station and furnished some settlement documents stating
therein that there was a mistake of fact in lodging the FIR.
Now at present if the accused is acquitted from the
charges, he has no objection from any corner. They are living
peacefully in their locality. As such, He does not want to
proceed further with the case.

PW.2, Smt. Jubati Das has deposed that she knows the
accused Jitul Das. The victim is her daughter. Now at present
her age is 16 years. The incident took place nearly two years
back. On the date of incident she alongwith her husband, Sri
Niral Das had gone to the house of her brother in law, Sri
Kalia Das @ Jitul Das to prepare knitting apparatus. When
she was there, at about 4:30 P.M, they received information
over phone from Debalata Das that something has happened
in their house and asked them to come home immediately.
Accordingly, she alongwith her husband came back to their
house. She found that her daughter, victim was crying and
on being asked the victim told her that she has just woken
up and Jjitul Das came and caught hold of her daughter and
was trying to drag her. At that point of time Sadananda Das
and Ashim Das saw the incident and when Sadananda Das
and Ashim Das shouted the accused fled away. Thereafter
they confirmed the incident from Sadananda Das and Ashim
Das. Thereafter her husband filed ejahar at the police station.
Police had come to their house. Her daughter was sent for
her medical check up at Philobari PHC. The victim was also
produced before magistrate for recording her statement U/s.
164 Cr.P.C.

In Cross-examination she has stated that she has not
seen the incident. After the incident, she appeared before the
police station and furnished some settlement documents
5

stating therein that there was a mistake of fact in lodging
the FIR. Now at present if the accused is acquitted from
the charges, she has_ no objection from any corner. They
are living peacefully in their locality. As such, she does not
want to proceed further with the case.

11. P.W.3, the victim girl has deposed that Material Ext. 1
is birth certificate(Proved in Original). She knows the accused
Jitul Das. The incident took place nearly one and half years back.
At about 4:30 P.M. She was at home and her elder sister Mrs.
Madhumita Das was sleeping inside the house. At that time Sri
Jitul Das came to her house and caught hold of her hand. Sri
Sadananda Das and Akhim Das who were passing in front of her
house and seen this and they raised alarm and consequently
Jitul Das fled away. A little later her parents came home she told
them about the incident where upon her father lodged the
ejahar. There after police came and interrogated her and police
sent to Phillobari PHC for medical check up, she was also
produced before the magistrate to recording her statement. Ext.
2 is her statement recorded by the magistrate. Ext. 2 (1) and
Ext. 2 (2) are her signatures.

12. In Cross-examination she has stated that she knows
the accused since last 4 to 5 years. The accused only kidded
with her and due to misunderstanding of fact the present FIR
was lodged against him. She has no grievances against the
accused regarding the alleged incident.

13. P.W.4, Ashim Das had deposed that he knows the
victim and he also knows the accused Sri Jitul Das. The incident
took place one and half years back at about 4 P.M. At that time
he was passing by the house of victim and saw that Sri Jitul Das
was holding the hand of victim. Seeing him Jitul Das fled away.
There after he told the incident to the parents of the

victim.
14. In Cross-examination he has stated that later on he
came to know that the accused kidded the victim and he had no
any bad _ intention towards the victim and due_ to
misunderstanding of fact the present FIR was lodged against
him.

15. With regard to the point for determination Ld. counsel
for the defence has pointed out that prosecution has failed to
prove the case beyond reasonable doubt. There is no material
ingredients of offence against the accused person. The victim
herself has not alleged against the accused person and other
PW’s have also not alleged anything against the accused person.
Hence the accused person should be acquitted and set at liberty.

16. In reply Id. Addl.P.P has admitted that the victim and the
other witnesses have failed to implicate the accused.

17. Upon hearing both sides, | have gone through the
material evidence on _ record and found that the material
witness victim i.e. PW 3 has deposed that the accused only
kidded with her and due to misunderstanding of fact the
present FIR was lodged against him. She has no grievances
against the accused regarding the alleged incident. PW 1 &
PW 2 the parents of the victim girl has stated during their cross
examination they have no objection if the accused is acquitted.
There is not an iota of evidence about the sexual harassment by
the accused to the victim girl. Which proved that the prosecution
has failed to prove that the accused had committed the offence
of sexual harassment.

18. In view of the above discussion and considering the
evidence on record, | am of the considered opinion that the
Prosecution has failed to prove the case against the
accused U/s. 12 of POCSO Act beyond all reasonable doubts.
Hence, the accused person namely 1) Sri Jitul Das is acquitted
and set at liberty.

19. The Prosecution is directed to dispose of the seized

material in accordance with law.

20. Send a copy of the Judgment to the Deputy Commissioner
of Tinsukia.

21. The case is disposed of herewith.

22. Given under her hand and seal of this court on this the

24" day of January, 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me:

( A. Hakim), (A. Hakim),
District & Sessions Judge District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC), cum Special Judge-2(FTC),

(POCSO)Tinsukia. (POCSO)Tinsukia.

Transcribed by :

P.D Phukan, (Steno)
8

ANNEXURE

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:

P.W.1, Sri Niral Das,
P.W.2, Smt. Jubati Das,
PW.3, Victim girl.
PW.4, Sri Ashim Das.

PROSECUTION DOCUMENTS :

Ext. 1, is the Ejahar,
Ext. 2 isthe 164 statement of the victim recorded by magistrate,

Material Ext. 1 is the birth certificate(Proved in Original) of the victim

girl.

( A. Hakim),
District & Sessions Judge
cum Special Judge-2(FTC),

(POCSO)Tinsukia.
