Page 1 of 9

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 61/15

Informant: XXXX

Accused: Sri Purna Kanta Mohan,
S/o- Late Muruth Mohan,
R/o- Naharani Block,
PS- Moran,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. G Pareek, learned Advocate.
Page 2 of 9

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

Sessions Case No. 61/15
G.R. Case No. 2792/12

State of Assam
nl Vs-

Sri Purna Kanta Mohan

Charges: under Sections 448/376(2)(f) IPC .

Date of evidence on : 29-01-14, 31-03-14, 12-05-14, 04-03-15, 08-04-05,

08-04-15 & 27-05-16.

Date of argument : 15-09-16.
Date of Judgment _—_: 30-09-16.

1)

2)

3)

JUDGMENT

Prosecution case is that the accused Sri Purna Kanta Mohan is a neighbour of
the victim, aged about 13 years. On the day of occurrence, i.e., 16-11-12, the
accused went to her house and stayed there for the night as the parents of
the victim were away. In course of such stay, the accused molested the
cousin sister of the victim and thereafter, committed forceful sexual
intercourse with the victim.

An ejahar was lodged on 17-11-12 at Moran Police Station and a case being
Moran Police Station Case No. 180/12 was registered and investigation
commenced. In course of such investigation, the Investigating Officer visited
the place of occurrence, prepared Sketch-Map, sent the victim for medical
examination and on completion of investigation, submitted the Charge-Sheet.
Upon committal, my learned predecessor framed charges under Sections
448/376(2)(f) IPC against the accused person and the charges were read
over and explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to be tried. Subsequently, this Court altered the charge under Section
376 (2)(f) IPC to one under Section 4 of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter the Act) and the charge was read over

and explained to the accused person, which also he denied and claimed to be
Page 3 of 9

tried.

4) In course of trial, prosecution examined six witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused person was examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused person took the plea of denial.

5) Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and the learned counsel for the
defence.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION
1. Whether the prosecutrix was a child within the meaning of Section
2(d) of the Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?
2. Whether the accused person trespassed the house of the victim?
3. Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault or rape
upon the prosecutrix?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

6) The victim stated her age as 12 years and as per the medical report also, it is
below 14 years. It is not disputed by the defence. Therefore, the victim is a
child as defined under Section 2(d) of the Act.

Point No. 2 & 3:

7) PW-1 stated that she knew the accused and used to address him as Dodou.
One day, she had to stay in her house along with her relative sister, i.e., the
other victim aged about seven years, as her mother had gone to Assam
Medical College & Hospital, Dibrugarh for the purpose of operation of one of
her relatives and her father went out for duty as a driver. PW-1 further stated
that on that day, the accused went to her house and asked about her
parents. As she told the accused about the absence of her parents and the
accused stayed in her house. She cooked rice with egg and all of them
including the accused took meal together. At night, while they were watching
TV, the accused asked them to switch off the TV for which they slept on the
bed. The accused slept on the ground in a separate room. At night, the
accused went to their bed and touched her and took off the cloths of the
victim. He told the sister (cousin) of PW-1 that her hole was small and her
sister’s hole was big. The accused took of her panty and jumped upon her.
The accused inserted his penis into her vagina and committed sexual
intercourse with her for a long time. When her sister tried to separate the

accused from PW-1, he pushed her. PW-1 further stated that after committing
8)

9)

Page 4 of 9

all bad things with her, the accused went to the other room asking her not to
tell anything to anybody. On the next day morning, the accused left her
house telling that he would again come to their house. In her statement
before the Magistrate under Section 164 CrPC, she had deposed similarly.

The apparent contradictions in the version given by PW-1 in her examination-
in-chief and that given in cross-examination are required to be noticed at the
outset. PW-1 had stated in her examination-in-chief that her father was also
absent as he went on duty as a driver. In cross-examination, she stated that
not only was her father present, but he had also enjoyed a session of
drinking with the accused in their house in the evening of the day of
occurrence. Not only that, her father also cooked egg curry while PW-1
cooked rice. She had stated in her examination-in-chief that she had cooked
both rice and egg and thereafter, she, her cousin and the accused had their
meal together. There being no statement anywhere in her evidence that her
father left the house after drinking and cooking, it cannot be presumed that
such must have been the case. It is rather difficult to believe that the father
of the PW-1, after getting intoxicated would go out for duty at night as a
driver. PW-1 stated that she did not know if her father or the accused had
sense after consuming liquor. It may be noted that PW-1 had also deposed
that on that day, the accused went to her house and asked about her parents
and as she told the accused about the absence of her parents, he stayed in
her house. She cooked rice with egg and all of them took meal together,
which does not at all tally with her account of events given during cross-
examination. The father of PW-1 has not even been cited as a prosecution
witness to prove that he was absent at the relevant time. Therefore, the vital
plank of the prosecution case that the occurrence took place in the absence
of the parents of the victim which provided him the opportunity to commit
the act, has become highly doubtful.

The victim/PW-1 for the first time in cross-examination stated that the could
not shout as the accused had tied them with gamusa (a traditional cotton
towel). This would mean that the accused was carrying with him two
gamusas, which is another improbability. Earlier, during cross-examination,
PW-1 had stated that the accused gagged her mouth with a gamusa. But she
nowhere stated that the accused had also tied her hands and legs,

preventing her from removing the gamusa from her mouth. What further
Page 5 of 9

diminishes her testimony is that she had stated in her examination-in-chief
that when the accused was allegedly raping the victim, her sister was trying
to separate them and was crying ‘sister may die’, despite having been tied
with a gamusa. It would require quite a feat for the accused, an old man,
aged between 70 (seventy) to 80 (eighty) years, as per the informant and the
accused respectively to tie up two girls at the same time and commit rape
upon one of them, that too for a long time, as alleged by PW-1.

10)The victim also stated that she earlier used to stay in the house of the
accused, but the accused did not display any bad behaviour.

11)In her examination-in-chief, the victim described in detail as to how the
accused pulled away her panty and unzipped his pant and jumped upon her.
Yet, during cross-examination, she stated that she cannot say what clothes
she or the accused were wearing at the time of occurrence, nor could she
state the approximate date of occurrence, saying it was of January, 2014,
although the ejahar was lodged on 17-11-12.

12)In view of the above contradictions and inconsistencies, the PW-1 cannot be
regarded as a reliable witness whose evidence can be said to be of sterling
quality.

13)The cousin of the victim who was stated to be with her at the time of
occurrence could not be examined at the trial despite several attempts. One
Aruna Baruah, grandmother of the victim, to whom the victim first reported
the matter, and who would have made the best res gestae witness, was
never examination by the police and made a witness in the case.

14) PW-2 stated that she knew the accused being the father of a friend of her
husband. On 16-11-12, she went to Astha Hospital to see her ailing sister
leaving her daughter along with a cousin sister in her house. She could not
return on that day and on the next day, i.e., on 17-11-12, she arrived at her
house at about 3:00 pm. Arriving at the house, she found her daughter
crying and she was lying on the bed while her cousin was consoling her. Upon
asking as to what had happened, the prosecutrix replied that the accused had
committed rape upon her. PW-2 further stated that her daughter told her that
after she left her house, the accused went to their house and asked her
about the returning time of her mother. Her daughter replied to the accused
that her mother may or may not return. Then the accused told her daughter

that he would go their house again in evening time to which her daughter
Page 6 of 9

also agreed. In the evening time, the accused again went to their house and
told her that as her mother did not return, he would stay in their house for
the night. PW-2 further stated that having good relation, the accused stayed
in their house for the night to which her daughter made no objection. As her
daughter and her cousin were aged about 11 & 8 years respectively, they
agreed to sleep on the ground. But on the night, the accused went to their
room, lit up the light and asked them whether they would allow him to have
sex with them. PW-2 further stated that the accused committed sexual
intercourse with the cousin and told that her private part was small, so he
would have sex with the elder one. Thereafter, the accused committed sexual
intercourse with her daughter. The PW-2 did not make any allusion to the
presence of her husband at their home, although her deposition implied that
he was absent.

15)The above version of PW-2 differs in material particulars from the version of
PW-1, as to the manner in which the accused allegedly approached the
victim.

16) During cross-examination, she stated that police did not ask her anything and
did not record her statement. There are several other houses near the place
of occurrence and if somebody cries from her house, nearby residents would
hear, all of which casts further doubts on the prosecution case. She stated
that her husband left the house after dinner with the accused, which she
could not have witnessed as she was absent at the relevant time. She denied
the defence suggestion to the effect that the accused person has been falsely
implicated due to quarrel regarding sale of land. In any case, when the victim
herself has been found to be highly unreliable in view of the various
inconsistencies in her evidence and therefore, lacking in credibility, what she
allegedly stated before the other reported witness can hardly corroborate the
evidence of the victim. The rest of the PWs who are also reported witnesses,
stand on the same footing.

17)In this case, the Medical Officer could not be examined. But in view of the
fact that the authenticity of the Medico-legal Report is not disputed, the same
is marked as Ext. ‘X’ and read in the evidence under the provision of Section
294 CrPC. As per the said report, there is no evidence of any recent injury
and the hymanal orifice admits only the tip of the little finger. Therefore, the

medical evidence also does not support the claim of forceful sexual
Page 7 of 9

intercourse.
18)In Mivrutti Pandurang Kokate and Ors. Vs. State of Maharashtra

[(2008)12 SCC565], the Hon'ble Supreme Court held:
“A child witness if found competent to depose to the facts and
reliable one such evidence could be the basis of conviction. In
other words even in the absence of oath the evidence of a child
witness can be considered under Section 118 of the Evidence Act
provided that such witness is able to understand the questions and
able to give rational answers thereof. The evidence of a child
witness and credibility thereof would depend upon the
circumstances of each case. The only precaution which the court
should bear in mind while assessing the evidence of a child
witness is that the witness must be a reliable one and his/her
demeanour must be like any other competent witness and there is
no likelihood of being tutored.
The decision on the question whether the child witness has
sufficient intelligence primarily rests with the trial Judge who
notices his manners, his apparent possession or lack of
intelligence, and the said Judge may resort to any examination
which will tend to disclose his capacity and intelligence as well as
his understanding of the obligation of an oath. The decision of the
trial court may, however, be disturbed by the higher court if from
what is preserved in the records, it is clear that his conclusion was
erroneous. This precaution is necessary because child witnesses
are amenable to tutoring and often live in a world of make-believe.
Though it is an established principle that child witnesses are
dangerous witnesses as they are pliable and liable to be influenced
easily, shaken and moulded, but it is also an accepted norm that if
after careful scrutiny of their evidence the court comes to the
conclusion that there is an impress of truth in it, there is no
obstacle in the way of accepting the evidence of a child witness.”

19) As already discussed, the child witness (PW-1) has not been found to be a
reliable one. Considering the broad probabilities of the case as has emerged
from the evidence of the PWs discussed above, it appears not unlikely that

the version of the prosecutrix is a tutored one.
Page 8 of 9

20) The accused person in his statement recorded under Section 313 CrPC stated
that he had one bigha of disposable land which grandfather of the prosecutrix
wanted to purchase in installment payment. But he sold it away to another
person. Because of this, they have implicated the accused in false case out of
grudge.

21)In view of what has been discussed above, it is not established that the
accused trespassed into the house of the informant and committed
penetrative sexual assault upon the prosecutrix.

22)In the result, I hold that the prosecution has failed to establish its case
beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, the accused person is acquitted
of the offence under Sections 448 IPC read with Section 4 of PCSO Act and
he be set at liberty forthwith.

23) Previous bail bond shall remain in force for a further period of 6 (six) months
under Section 437-A CrPC.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 30" day of

September, 2016.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 9 of 9

APPENDIX

List of witnesses: XXXX
List of Exhibits:

1.
2.
3.
4.

Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
Ext. 2 Ejahar;

Ext. 3 Sketch-Map; and

Ext. 4 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
