IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 59 of 2018

Under section 417 IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out GR Case No 2526/18)

State of Assam

-Vs-
Md. Sorhab Ali _ Accused Person

Present : Smti Il. Barman,AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State : Mr. M.C. Baruah,
Special Public Prosecutor

For the accused : \Mr. B. Basumatary, Advocate.
Date of Argument : 23-09 -2019
Date of Judgment : 25-09-2019.
JUDGMENT
1. The genesis of the present case is that for last eight

months, the accused Md. Sorhab Ali, assuring to marry, did have
physical relation with the daughter of the informant, aged about
16 years, as a result of which she carried pregnancy. At first
though the accused Md. Sorhab Ali and his father Jainal Ali agreed
to marry the victim but lateron did not marry her. Knowing about
her pregnancy accused 's father Jainal Ali gave some tablets to
the victim to cause her abortion but she did not consume the
same. It is further alleged that on 24-06-2016 accused Sorhab Ali
and his father Joynal Ali rebuked the victim and her family

 

Special POCSO Case No. 59 of 2018
members in front of her house using filthy language and also
threatened to kill them and to set fire their house.

2. Upon receipt of the FIR (Ext.1) on 25-06-2018 from the
informant (PW1), GD Entry No. 583 dated 25-06-2018 was entered
and forwarded the same to the O/C Tezpur PS for registering a
case. Accordingly, Tezpur Police station registered the case being
Tezpur P.S. Case No. 1330/18 u/s 420/314/511/506/34 of IPC read
with section 4 of POCSO Act was registered and entrusted Sl
Aminul Islam to complete the investigation of the case. In course
of investigation, the Investigating Officer (PW 8) recorded the
statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical
examination, got her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and on
completion of investigation having found materials, laid
chargesheet against the accused Sorhab Ali u/s 420 IPC read with
section 4 of POCSO Act by another Investigating Officer (PW 9).

3. After appearance of theyaccused person before this Court,
furnishing the necessary copies ofthe documents as required u/s
207 of Cr.P.C. and having heard both parties, charge was framed
against the accused Md. Sorhab Ali u/s 417 of IPC read with
section 4 of POCSO Act by my learned predecessor and particulars
of the eharge on being read over and explained to the accused
person, he pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.

4. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many
as nine witnesses. On closure of the prosecution evidence,
statement of the accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. wherein the
accused denied all the incriminating evidence that emerged
against him stating that the villagers performed their marriage
and they resided together at his home but lateron the parents of
the victim by assaulting, had taken her to her parental house.
Defence examined none.

5. The points for decision in this case is that -

(1) Whether accused Md. Sorhab prior to 25-
06-2018 at Bhomoraguri, Bhojkhwa_ chapori

 

Special POCSO Case No. 59 of 2018
under Tezpur Police station cheated Miss “X”
by inducing her to have sexual intercourse
with him promising to marry her and thereby
committed an_ offence’ punishable’ under
section 417 of IPC ?

(3) Whether’ accused Md. Sorhab_ Ali
committed penetrative sexual assault on the
child victim under the age of 18 years and
thereby committed an offence punishable u/s 4
of POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision:

 

6. Mr. Baruah, the learned Special \Public Prosecutor
submitted that the evidence of the victim inspire confidence that
she had love affair with the accused, and that the accused with
the assurance of marrying her undergone intercourse with her for
which the victim carried pregnancy of 6 months at the time of
filing the case and lateron she gave birth to a baby. It is further
submitted that\as the prosecutrix is a minor one at that time,
hencerconsent'is irrelevant in the present case and the accused is
guilty, for committing penetrative sexual assault on the child
victim.

7. Refuting the argument of the learned Special PP, Mr. B.
Basumatary, appearing for the accused argued that in the case
the prosecution failed to prove the age of the victim to be held as
a minor as claimed and as such, it does not come within the ambit
of POCSO Act. The learned counsel also made a _ lengthy
submission that the prsoecutrix was in love with the accused and
if she maintained sexual relation, it was done voluntarily and as
admittedly the accused married the girl, it cannot be said to be a
breach of promise and cannot be said to be a case of rape.

 

Special POCSO Case No. 59 of 2018
8. Considering the rival submissions advanced by the
learned counsel of the parties, having regard to the evidence on
record, it would be apposite to have a bird’s view of the evidence

on record.

9. PW 1, victim’s mother testified that prior to the incident,
her victim daughter got married with the accused Sorhab and
thereafter they lived together as husband and wife for about 8
months but when her daughter became pregnant, accused Sorhab
refused to allow her to stay in his house. Hence, her daughter was
residing in her parental house along with the child. Then she
lodged the FIR, Ext.1. She admitted that the age of her victim
daughter was 18 years at the time of the incident.

10. PW 2, victim’s father stated that the accused \got married
his daughter by performing Nikah and«executing Kabil nama
before the Kaji. After marriage, his*daughter and the accused
used to stay in his house. But when his daughter became
pregnant, the accused denied. the paternity of the baby of the
womb, hence, his _wife,lodged the FIR against the accused. He
again stated that before performing Nikah, his daughter became
pregnant. During cross he admitted that due to misunderstanding,
his wifetodged the FIR against the accused.

11. PW 3, the victim, deposed that before performing
marriage with the accused, due to love she had physical relation
with him and became pregnant. Thereafter, her marriage was
performed by the villagers with the accused and after marriage he
used to reside in her parental house and she gave birth to a child
but the accused refused the paternity of the child and leaving her
there went to his house. Then her mother lodged the FIR. She
admitted that her marriage was performed according to Muslim
Chariat with the consent of guardian of both the parties but due
to misunderstanding the case was filed.

 

Special POCSO Case No. 59 of 2018
12. PW 4 Mustafa Ahmed testified that victim carried
pregnancy for having relation with the accused when she was
16/17 years old and gave birth to a child.

13. PW 5 Wahida Begum only heard that accused Sorhab Ali
committed rape on the victim and lateron she gave birth to a
child but she did not know through whom she carried pregnancy.

14. PW 6 Ator Ali, the neighbour of the informant deposed
that hearing about the pregnancy of the daughter of the
informant, he went to the house of the informant and on being
asked, the victim told that accused did have physical relation with
her promising to marry her, as a result, she became pregnant.
Regarding the incident, they called a meeting and asked the
accused to marry the victim girl but the accused’s father refused
and thereafter, the accused fled away. Hence, thercase was filed.
Lateron the victim gave birth to a female child and presently, the
victim is residing with her parents. According to this witness, the
victim was 15/16 years old’ at the*time of the incident.

During cross, heyadmitted that on assumption he stated
the age of the wictimas 15/16 years.

15. PW. 7, Dr. Jerina Nazrin, the Medical Officer deposed that
on, 30-06-2018 she examined the victim and found - hymen
absent, P/A fundal height - 24 weeks but found no any injury
mark on her body as well as on her private parts. There was no
sign of recent sexual intercourse. Doctor could not opine the age
and gestational status due to non availability of reports. She
proved the medical report as Ext. 3 and vaginal smear report as
Ext. 4.

16. PW 8, ASI Budhan Borah, the Investigating Officer, visited
the place of occurrence, recorded the statement of the victim and
other witnesses, drew the sketch map of the place of occurrence
vide Ext.5, sent the victim for medical examination, got recorded
her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C., arrested the accused and after
collecting the medical report he handed over the case diary to the

 

Special POCSO Case No. 59 of 2018
/C. PW 9, SI Aminul Hague, another Investigating Officer
submitted the charge sheet against the accused Sorhab Ali u/s
420 of IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act vide Ext. 6.

17. Now, the question is whether the above evidence is
sufficient to show that the victim girl was under 18 years of age at
the time of occurrence. No document was produced to ascertain
the age of the victim. Though in examination-in-chief, PW 4 stated
that at the relevant time the victim was 16/17 years and
according to PW 6 the neighbour she was 15/16 years old but
both the witnesses during cross admitted that they mentioned the
age of the victim only on assumption. On the other hand, PW \1
victim’s mother who is the best person to say the age\of-her
children, clearly stated that at the relevant time, the victim was
18 years. The victim in deposition also mentioned her age as 18
years. In the above evidence, particularly. from the evidence of
the victim’s mother, it can be safely held that the victim was
major at the time of the incident and as such, the victim being not
a child, it does not come within the ambit of POCSO Act.

18. Now, letus’See what offence the accused committed.

19. In this*case, the evidence of the victim, the most vital
witness) reveals that out of love she did have sexual relation
withthe accused as a result of which she carried pregnancy and
thereafter, the villagers performed their marriage. After marriage
they resided together in her parental house and she gave birth
to a female child. She alleged that thereafter the accused
refusing the paternity of the child, left for his house and then her
mother lodged the FIR. She admitted that her marriage was
performed with the consent of the guardian of both the parties
but due to misunderstanding, the case was filed. Victim’s parent
PW 1 and PW 2 also admitted the marriage of the victim with
accused Sorhab Ali. On careful scrutiny of the evidence of the
victim and her parents it clearly indicates that the victim had
love with the accused and she voluntarily maintained physical

 

Special POCSO Case No. 59 of 2018
relation with him, as a result she carried pregnancy. It is also in
the evidence of the victim and her mother that at that time she
was 18 years old attaining the age of giving consent. Knowing
about her pregnancy, the villagers performed their marriage
before Kaji and thereafter the couple resided in her parental
home. She appears to be a consenting party in committing
sexual act. The victim in deposition never stated that the
accused committed her rape. In the above, | am of the
considered opinion that no offence of rape is made out against
the accused.

20. Regarding offence u/s 417 IPC though in the FIR it is
alleged that the accused promising to marry, did have.physical
relation with the victim girl but neither in statement u/s 164
Cr.PC nor in evidence the victim alleged that the accused did
have physical relation assuring to marry \her.,Rather from the
evidence of the Pws including the*victim herself it is clear that
the victim being a major one willingly consented to have
physical relation with_theyaccused. On the other hand, it is not
the case that theyaccused did not marry her, rather admittedly
he married@ her\ and thereafter resided together, which is
admitted) by \the victim herself. Though the victim and the
parents, alleged that the accused denied the paternity of the
child but in statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C., accused Sorhab Ali
admitted the paternity of the child of the victim. He admitting
the marriage with the victim stated that lateron her parents by
assaulting had taken her to her parental home. In view of the
above evidence on record, | am of the considered opinion that
the prosecution has not been able to prove the offence of
cheating u/s 417 IPC against the accused Sorhab Ali.

21. In the above, facts and circumstance of the case, |
unhesitatingly hold that the prosecution failed to establish the
charge against the accused. Accordingly, accused Md. Sorhab Ali
is acquitted from the charge u/s 417 IPC and section 4 of POCSO
Act or offence of rape and set him at liberty forthwith. His bail

 

Special POCSO Case No. 59 of 2018
bond shall extended till next six months in view of section 437 A
of Cr.PC.

22. Judgement is pronounced and delivered in open court
under the Seal and signature of this Court on the 25‘ day of
September, 2019.

(1.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(1.Barman)
Special Judge;
Sonitpur,.Jezpur.

 

Special POCSO Case No. 59 of 2018
APPENDIX.

Prosecution witnesses.

1. PW1 : mother of the victim.

2. PW 2 : father of the victim.

3. PW3 : Victim

4. PW4 : Mustafa Ahmed,

5. PW5 : Wahida Begum.

6. PW6 : Ator Ali

7. PW7 : Dr. J. Nazrin (M.O.)

8. PW8 : ASI Budhan Borah, I.O.

9. PWY : Sl Aminul Islam, another 1.0.
Exhibits.
Ext. 1 - FIR
Ext. 2 y victim’s statement u/s 164 Ctr.P.C.
Ext. 3&4 : medical report & Vaginal smear report
Ex ‘6 : Sketch map
Ext. 6 : charge sheet.

(1.Barman)
Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

 

Special POCSO Case No. 59 of 2018
