1 of 23

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE :::: NALBARI

Present: Mrs. S. Begum.
Sessions Judge,
Nalbari.

SPECIAL (P) CASE NO: 7/16
u/s- 342/354B IPC r/w 8 of POCSO Act

State of Assam
beceeeennaees Complainant
-Vs-
Dayaram Barman

ee caaeeaaeeeees Accused person

Appearance :
For the prosecution: D. Barman, P.P, Nalbari
For the defence : Md. M. A. Sheikh, Advocate
Date of Argument : 12/10/2018
Date of Judgment : 20/12/2018
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case as it is reflected in the ejahar lodged by

Kulen Barman on 09/04/16 is that on 08/04/16 at about 3:00pm his
11 years old daughter Ankita Barman (hereinafter referred as “Miss
X") was sexually assaulted by accused Dayaram Barman by calling
her to his house. It is contended that the accused taking the
advantage of absence of other family members in his house called
the victim to his house and after increasing the sound of the TV,
removed her clothes and thereafter caused sexual assault on her.
While the family members of the victim did not find the victim inside
the house then they called her loudly and then the accused sent her

away from the house. The victim narrated everything to the family
2 of 23

members of her house. On the strength of the ejahar Tihu PS Case
No. 46/16 u/s- 342/354B IPC r/w 8 of POCSO Act. has been

registered.

2. Police force set in to motion and on completion of the
investigation submitted charge sheet against accused Daya Barman
u/s- 342/354B IPC r/w section 8 of the POCSO Act. While the accused
entered in to his appearance before this special court, getting prima-
facie materials to charge against the accused u/s- 354B IPC and
section 8 and 12 of the POCSO Act, charge is framed accordingly and
read over to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed
to be tried. Later on charge is amended and additional charge u/s- 6
of the POCSO Act has been framed against the accused and read
over to the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.

3. The prosecution to bring home the charge against the
accused examined as many as 8 witnesses including the M/O and
I/O. Plea of the accused is of denial. He submitted that he was falsely
implicated as he chased the victim for touching the articles brought
for the marriage ceremony of his daughter. The accused adduced 5

defence witnesses. Heard arguments from both the sides.

4. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

i) Whether the accused on 08/04/2016 at about 3:00 PM at
Bhojkuchi (Ojapara) village under Tihu P.S. committed sexual
assault upon Miss X, aged 11 years, and thereby committed
an offence punishable u/s- 8 of the POCSO Act.

ii) Whether the accused on the aforesaid day, time and place
committed sexual harassment upon Miss X, aged 11 years,
and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s- 12 of the
POCSO Act.
3 of 23

iii) Whether the accused on the aforesaid day, time and place
assaulted or used criminal force to Miss X with the intention of
disrobing or compelling her to be naked and thereby
committed an offence punishable u/s- 354B IPC

iv) Whether the accused on the aforesaid day, time and place
committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault upon Miss X,
aged 11 years, and thereby committed an offence punishable
u/s- 6 of the POCSO Act.

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF
5. I have heard arguments put forwarded by the learned
counsels for both the sides. The learned defence counsel argued on
several counts to show the innocence of the accused. It is submitted
that in the instant case except the family members of the victim no
other independent witness has been examined by the prosecution. It
is further submitted that the victim is the lone eye witnesses of the
present case and that she being a minor and mentally retarded child
there is probability of tutoring by the family members of the victim
and only upon her evidenced the accused should not be convicted. It
is further submitted that there is material contradiction in the
testimony of the witnesses including the informant and other witness
of the victim's family with their earlier statement before the I/O and
the learned defence counsel urged not to convict the accused on the
basis of such doubtful evidences. It is submitted that the evidence of
the victim is not inspiring to sustain the conviction of the accused. It
is also stated that there is unexplained delay in lodging the ejahar
and there is every chance of concoction. It is submitted that as per
the information of the victim she informed about the occurrence to
her aunt Dulu and Manisha but those two witnesses are not
examined as PWs and their non examination creates doubts on the

veracity of the prosecution case.

6. It is submitted that there is material contradiction between

the testimony of the victim with the evidence of the grandmother and
4 of 23

mother of the victim and the learned defence counsel submitted that
due to material discrepancies the evidence of the victim should not
be relied upon. He also submitted that the DWs examined by the
defence side clearly established that no such incident as alleged by
the informant had happened and that actually the victim was chased
out from the house by the accused on the date of alleged occurrence
as she created annoyance in the house of the accused by touching
the articles which was collected for the marriage ceremony of the
daughter of the accused. It is further submitted that as per the
medical report no external injury was found on the body of the
victim. It is also submitted that though the victim stated that the
finger of the accused was inserted in her anus but medical report
does not show any injury at her anus. It is argued that as the medical
report does not corroborated the evidence of the victim so the

evidence of the victim should be discarded.

7. Per contra the learned Special PP argued that the prosecution
side, by cogent and reliable evidence of the victim as well as other
prosecution witnesses, has been able to bring home the charge
against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt and that conviction
should be recorded against the accused u/s- 354B IPC and section 8
and 12 of the POCSO Act. It is submitted that though there is some
minor contradiction in the testimonies of the victim with her earlier
statement before the I/O yet those are minor contradictions and do

not go to the root of the case.

8. On the backdrop of the forgoing argument now let me discuss
and appreciate the testimonies of the witnesses to arrive at a
judicious decision. First of let me discuss the evidence of PW-1 Kulen
Barman, who is the informant cum father of the victim. He narrated
during his evidence that his daughter “Miss X” was aged 11 years at
the time of occurrence. On the date of occurrence at about 8:00am
he came out from his house for business purpose. His wife Meghali

also went to her sister in law's house. His daughter Miss X and his
5 of 23

mother Janaki was in the house. At about 3:00pm his uncle's
daughter Manisha Barman over phone called him to come to the
house. In the evening at about 6:00 pm while he returned back to
the house his wife, who came back from her sister-in-law's house
earlier to him, informed him that accused Daya calling the victim to
his house touched different parts of her body in side his house by
increasing the sound of the TV and closing the door. Thereafter the
accused removing the panty of Miss X did bad work with her. His wife
also told him that as the victim was not seen anywhere, then his
mother Janaki Barman called her loudly and at that time accused
Daya sent the victim through the back door of his house. He also
disclosed that all the above facts were narrated by the victim to his
wife. On the next day he lodged the ejahar. He exhibited Ext-1 as the
ejahar. He disclosed that as the police were busy with election duty
so police visited his house after 4/5 days of lodging the ejahar.
Thereafter police brought the victim to the hospital for medical
examination and her statement also got recorded by the police. He
also exhibited the birth certificate of the victim which was seized by
police vide Ext-2. He exhibited Paper Ext-1 as the said certificate. It is
disclosed by him that the statement of the victim got recorded by
magistrate u/s- 164 CrPC. The witness was re-examined and during
his re-examination he exhibited Paper Ext-2 as the mentally retarded
certificate of the victim. This witness was cross examined at length.
During cross examination he revealed that he cannot now recollect
the exact date of birth of the victim but he reiterated that his
daughter was born in the year 2005. he also revealed that his
daughter studied in class VI at the time of occurrence. He Further
revealed that his wife did not inform him that the accused inserted

his finger in to the anus of the victim.

9. PW-2 Meghali Barman, who is the mother of the victim,
testified that on the date of occurrence she came to Nalbari town at
about 8.30 am and returned at at 5pm. On her arrival the victim

grabbed her and informed her that while she went to the house of
6 of 23

the accused to collect pebbles from his house for playing “lash” then
the accused invited her to his house to watch TV. While she entered
in to the house of the accused then the accused increased the
volume of the TV and the speed of the fan was also increased.
Thereafter the accused embarrassed her from back side and removed
her frock up to her shoulder and pressed her breast. It is stated that
while she screamed then the accused turned her facing towards him
and removing her panty tried to insert his penis in her private part.
She also disclosed that the victim informed her that while the victim
raised hue and cry asking for releasing her then initially the accused
did not release her but later on he sent her from his house through
the back side door of the of the house. It is disclosed that the house
of the accused is in front of their house and the victim used to
frequently visit the house of the accused. On the date of occurrence
the wife of accused along with her daughter went to market for
purchasing articles for the marriage of her daughter and wife of the
accused informed her (PW-2) about the fact that she would go to the
market. It is disclosed by this witness that after her (PW-2) arrival at
her house, her husband came back and she informed her husband
about the incident. While the wife and daughter of the accused
returned back then she informed the wife of the accused about the
occurrence. Till the next day they awaited for some reply from the
wife of the accused but as she did not reply on the next day also, so
her husband lodged the ejahar at Tihu PS. The victim was also taken
by her (PW-2) husband with him to the Tihu PS. Police brought the
victim before the Tihu PHC for her medical examination and her
statement was also got recorded by judicial magistrate. She also
disclosed that her daughter is a little mentally retarded. During cross
she revealed that the victim though is little bit mentally retarded girl
but she herself gave the statement before the magistrate and that
she was also present before the magistrate while the statement of
the victim was recorded. She during cross examination revealed that

the victim did not disclose before her that the accused inserted his
7 of 23

finger in her anus. It is revealed that the victim was studying at class

VI during that time and that at present she is a student of class VIII.

10. PW-3 is the victim. As she is a minor, aged 12 years, and as
she seemed to be a mentally retarded girl to a certain extent so to
ascertain her capability of understanding and maturity, few questions
were put to her and after recording the answers while it appeared
that she has proper understanding and maturity to depose then her
evidence was recorded in verbatim. During her evidence the victim
disclosed that she went to the house of the accused after returning
back to home from her school for bringing pebbles/ stone for playing
“lash”. The pebbles were at the courtyard of the accused and she met
the accused at his courtyard. Seeing her the accused called her to his
house and thereafter embraced her. It is further revealed that the
accused also increased the speed of the fan and volume of the TV
after bringing her to his house. Thereafter the accused removed her
wearing frock to her shoulder and thereafter touched her breast. The
victim raised hue and cry and thereafter the accused removed her
panty and pushed his penis (“suma”) in between her legs from the
back side and his penis came out to the front side of her legs.
However it did not touch her sexual organ. It is further revealed that
the accused inserted one of his finger in her anus. Thereafter while
she raised hue and cry and also cried, then the accused allowed her
to come out from his house through the back door of the house. At
the time of occurrence the accused was alone in side his house. It is
revealed by her that she informed the matter to her aunt Dulu and
Manisha. Her parents were not at her house at that particular time.
While her mother returned back, then she informed her mother about
the whole incident. Two days subsequent to the incident, she went to
the PS along with her parents and she was brought before the doctor,
her statement was also got recorded by the magistrate u/s- 164
CrPC. She exhibited Ext-3 as her statement before the magistrate.
This witness was cross examined at length. During cross examination

she denied that she did not state before the magistrate as well as
8 of 23

before the police that the accused inserted one of his finger in her
anus. It is admitted by her that she frequently visited the house of
the accused for watching TV. It is denied by her that as she annoyed
the accused by entering in to his house and as other family members
of the accused were not present in the house so the accused asked
her to go from his house. It is revealed by her that first accused
asked her to go and thereafter asked her to come. It is stated by her
that while she came out from the house then the accused was in side

his house.

11. PW-4 Janoki Barman who is the grandmother of the victim
disclosed during her evidence that on 08/04/16 at about 1:00pm her
granddaughter Miss X returned back from her school. At that time
she was cooking rice and while the meal was ready then she
searched for the victim but found that she was not inside the house.
So she came out to the road and called the victim by uttering her
name and also went ahead. Then she noticed that the victim was
coming out from the backyard of the house of the accused. Noticing
her (PW-4) the victim rushed to her house and informed her (PW-4)
that the accused touched her breast and then taking her in his lap,
touched her private part by his male organ and she also informed her
aunt Manisha about the incident. While she (PW-4) inquired the
victim why she went to the house of the accused then the victim
informed that she went to the courtyard of the accused to bring
pebbles and then the accused called her in to his house and
committed bad works with her as described above. It is revealed by
this witness that at that time mother of the victim was not at house.
The mother of the victim went to the house of her sister-in-law. So
she (PW-4) informed the mother of the victim about the incident over
mobile phone. She (PW-4) also sent information to the father of the
victim about the incident. During cross examination this witness
disclosed that she called the victim from 15 meters away from the
house of the accused. It is revealed that she noticed the victim

coming out from the back side of the house of the accused and that
9 of 23

the victim informed her that she (victim) was sent out by the accused
through the back door of his house. It is disclosed that though the
victim is a little bit mentally retarded yet she can express all the

things properly in words.

12. PW-5 Manisha Barman is the cousin sister of the informant.
She during her evidence testified that her house is in the same
courtyard to that of the informant and the victim called her as aunt.
She revealed that on the date of occurrence i.e. 08/04/16 at about
2:30/ 3:00 pm while she was at her own house at that time the
victim also returned back to home from her school. Sometimes later,
the victim became traceless from her house. It is revealed that the
grandmother of the victim calling the victim loudly came to the road
from her house and she (PW-5) also went out from her house to the
gate of her house. At that time she noticed the victim coming our
from the back side of the house of the accused by pulling her panty.
After coming back to her own house the victim in crying condition
informed her that the accused inside his house taking her on his lap
caught her breast by his hand and entered his sexual organ through
her legs. She also disclosed that the victim informed her that at that
time the accused locked the door of his house and TV and Fan was
running in the house. During cross examination she revealed that
while she awaited at the gate of her house the grandmother (PW-4)
of the victim ahead and that she noticed the victim coming out from
the house of the accused from a distance of 20 meters. She revealed
that at that time the back side chain of the wearing frock of the
victim was in open condition. It is also disclosed that the victim
informed her that the wife of the accused was not present at the

house at the time of occurrence.

13. PW-6 Karunakanta, who is the grandfather of the victim,
disclosed during his evidence that on the day of occurrence while he
returned back after cutting bamboo at his own basti land then this

wife Janaki informed him that the accused committed sexual assault
10 of 23

upon the victim at his house. It is also disclosed by this witness that
his wife Janaki informed him that the accused removed the wearing
clothes of the victim and did bad work with her and while Janaki
called the victim loudly then she noticed the victim coming out from

the back side door of the house of the accused.

14. PW-7 Dr. Jonali Deka is the M/O of this case. She disclosed
during her evidence that on 09/04/16 at 9:20am she examined the
victim “Miss X”, aged 11 years, at Tihu FRU. The doctor opined that
no sign and symptoms of sexual assault is found at the time of

examination of the victim.

15. PW-8 Jalilur Rahman, who is the I/O of this case, testified
during his evidence that on 09/04/16 on receipt of an ejahar from
one Kulen Barman the O/C, Tihu PS registered Tihu PS Case No.
46/16 u/s- 342/354B IPC r/w section 8 of the POCSO Act and
entrusted him with the charge of investigation. He took the charge of
investigation and on that very day he recorded the statement of
informant and victim at Tihu PS. Thereafter he visited the PO and
prepared sketch map of the PO. He exhibited Ext-5 as the sketch map
of PO. He disclosed that he recorded the statement of the witnesses.
He brought he victim for medical examination. He also produced the
victim before the magistrate and statement of the victim got recorded
by the magistrate at Tihu. He revealed that he seized the birth
certificate of the victim vide Ext-6. Thereafter he arrested the
accused and produced him before the JMFC, Tihu. It is disclosed that
on completion of the investigation, he submitted the charge sheet
against the accused Daya Barman u/s- 342/354B IPC r/w section 8 of
the POCSO Act. He exhibited Ext-7 as the charge sheet. During cross
examination the I/O revealed that the victim was sent for medical
examination to Tihu PS on 09/04/16. It is revealed by him that in the
CD he did not mention whether there was TV in the house of the
accused or not. It is also disclosed that he did not seize the wearing
clothes of the victim. It is further revealed by the I/O that in the
11 of 23

sketch map, “A” is the PO, which is the house of the accused and “E”
is the house of the victim and informant. He revealed that he did not
mention the distance between the house of the accused and the
victim in the sketch map. It is denied by the I/O that he prepared the
sketch map by not visiting the PO and that he prepared it at the PS.

16. DW-1, who is the accused, disclosed during his evidence
that Kulen Barman lodged an ejahar against him. He disclosed that
the marriage ceremony of his daughter was fixed on 22/4/16 and
invitation cards were printed. He exhibited Ext-"ka” as the said
invitation card. It is disclosed by him that on the previous day of the
alleged occurrence he stored the articles, which was purchased for
the marriage, under his bed in his house. He disclosed that on the
date of alleged occurrence he was at his own house and his wife
Himani Barman, his two sister-in-laws i.e. Kabita Barman and Jayanti
Barman as well as Ranju Barman and Manju Barman were also
present at his house. He disclosed that on the day of alleged
occurrence the victim came to his house and she started to touch the
articles which were purchased for the marriage of his daughter and
which were kept in side his room. Then he rebuked the victim for
touching the said articles and at that time his wife came to his room
and asked him what happened. Thereafter he ousted the victim from
his house by catching her hand through the back side door of his
house. It is also disclosed by him that while he ousted the victim
from his house then his sister-in-laws also noticed the same. During
cross examination it is stated by the accused that he collected articles
of marriage of his daughter since one month prior to the date of

marriage.

17. DW-2 Himani Barman, who is the wife of the accused,
disclosed during her evidence that informant Kulen lodged a false
ejahar against her husband. She disclosed that on the date of
occurrence she along with Ranju Bamran, Manju Barman and her

sister-in-laws i.e. Kabita Barman and Jaymati Bamran were sitting at
12 of 23

their kitchen discussing about the marriage ceremony of her
daughter. It is disclosed by her that at about 11-30 am the victim
came to their house and entered into the front room of their house.
Her husband asked the victim to go out from the house and asked
her not to touch the articles which were collected for the marriage.
She disclosed that she came to the front room of her house and
noticed that her husband ousted the victim from the house. She
disclosed that her sister-in-laws also noticed the said fact. During
cross examination this witness revealed that the room in which the
victim entered is their drawing doom and that the bed room is at the
side of the small room which is near the drawing room. She disclosed

that her husband pulled the victim from the bed room.

18. DW-3 Kabita Barman, who is the sister-in-law of the
accused, deposed in the same way to that of the DW-2. During cross
examination this witness disclosed that she did not notice the victim

while she entered into the house of the accused.

19, DW-4 Jaymati Barman, who is the own sister-in-law and
adjacent neighbour of the accused also corroborated the evidence of
DW-2. During cross examination she revealed that on the date of
occurrence while they were at the kitchen of the accused at that time
Dayaram was inside his room. The bed room of Dayaram is at a
certain distance from the kitchen and there are other rooms in
between the kitchen and bed room and the articles of marriage were
kept in the bed room of Dayaram. It is disclosed by her that while
Dayaram chased the victim then they were inside the kitchen and
that the victim was crying while she was chased from the house of

accused Dayaram.

20. DW-5 Ranju Barman, who is the sister-in-law of the
accused, disclosed during her evidence in the same way to that of the
evidence of DW-2.
13 of 23

21. On the backdrop of the forgoing evidence now let me consider
whether the prosecution has been established a case u/s- 354B IPC
and u/s- 6/8/12 of the POCSO Act against the accused. While
considering the evidence on record it is found that the whole
prosecution case rest on the evidence of the lone eye witness who is
the victim herself and who is a child witness. The other witnesses are
reported witnesses. It is well settled principle of law that testimony of
a child witness should not be rejected only on the ground of the
witness being of tender age but the evidence of such witness has to

be scrutinized with care and caution.

22. Section 118 of the Indian Evidence Act dealt with the
testimony of a child witness. This section contemplates that all
person are competent to testify unless the court considers that by
reason of tender year, extreme old age, disease or infirmity they are
incapable of understanding the questions put to them and giving

rational answers to them.

ee Our Hon'ble High Court in (2007) 3 GLR 612 in para 13 held
as follows :- “A bare perusal of the provisions of law above
mentioned would go to manifestly indicate that a person either a
minor or lunatic is not incompetent to testify, unless he is prevented
by his minority or lunacy as the case may be from understanding the

questions put to him and giving rational answers to them.”

24. On the back drop of above the settled principle of law
regarding the competency of child witness now let me scrutinize the
testimony of the victim who is examined by the prosecution as PW-3.
In the present case to test the competency of the victim who is a
slightly mentally retarded child witness and regarding which there is
no denial on the part of the defence, various questions were put to
ascertain whether she has proper understanding and maturity so as
to depose and after such examination while it was found that she

gave rational answers and has proper understanding and maturity to
14 of 23

depose, then only evidence of the victim was recorded. She during
her evidence vividly described the incident. She testified that on the
date of occurrence she went to the house of the accused after
returning back to home from her school for bringing pebbles/ stone
for playing “lash”. The pebbles were at the courtyard of the accused
and she met the accused at his courtyard. Seeing her the accused
called her to his house and thereafter embraced her. It is further
revealed that the accused also increased the speed of the fan and
volume of the TV after bringing her to his house. Thereafter the
accused removed her wearing frock to her shoulder and thereafter
touched her breast. The victim raised hue and cry and thereafter the
accused removed her panty and pushed his penis (“suma”) in
between her legs from the back side and his penis came out to the
front side of her legs. However it did not touch her sexual organ. It is
Further revealed that the accused inserted one of his finger at her
anus. Thereafter while she raised hue and cry and also cried, then
the accused allowed her to come out from his house through the
back door of the house. At the time of occurrence the accused was
alone in side his house. The evidence of this witness on all material
point is corroborated by her statement u/s- 164 CrPC which was
recorded by Magistrate. Her statement got recorded four days
subsequent to the incident and no major contradiction is found
between her testimony before the court and her statement u/s- 164
CrPC. There is only one contradiction with her earlier statement u/s-
164 CrPC. She in her statement u/s- 164 CrPC did not disclose that
the accused inserted his finger in her anus. Except this contradiction
there is no other major contradiction. Nothing could be elicited by the
defence during the cross-examination of the victim to show that she
had stated falsely against the accused regarding committing sexual
assault upon her by the accused. Nothing could be shown by the
defence why the victim would falsely implicate the accused with such
type of shameful occurrence. No motive is found why this child
witness would speak falsely about such type of incident implicating

the accused. Usually girls of Assamese society are very much shy in
15 of 23

nature and they would not speak about such type of incident on
imagination. From the very childhood the female child of Assamese
society tries to conceal their private parts from others and it is
unbelievable that child of such Assamese society would concoct a

story involving herself with such a shameful occurrence.

25. The evidence of the victim got credence by the evidence of
her grand-mother Janaki Barman (PW-4) and her cousin sister
Manisha Barman (PW-5). According to the testimony of PW-4 Janaki
Barman the victim on the date of occurrence at about 1:00 pm
returned back from her school and while the meal was ready she
called the victim but noticed that she was not inside the house. So
PW-4 Janaki Barman went towards the road and called her by
uttering her name and then went ahead. At that time she noticed
that the victim was coming from the house of the accused through
the back side door of the house of the accused. PW-5 Manisha
Barman who is the aunt of the victim also supported the evidence of
the PW-4 who is the grandmother of the victim. She (PW-5) stated
that the grandmother of the victim went towards the road uttering
the name of the victim at that time she (PW-5) also came out to the
gate of her house. She fully supported the evidence of the PW-5
Janaki Barman that they noticed the victim who was coming from the
back side of the house of the accused. The evidence of the both
these witnesses transpire that in the afternoon they noticed the
victim coming from the back side of the house of the accused. PW-5
Manisha narrated during her evidence that after coming back to her
own house on inquiry the victim in crying condition disclosed before
her that the accused taking her on his lap touching her breast by his
hand entered his sexual organ through her legs. She (PW-5) also
disclosed that the victim informed her that at that time the accused
locked the door of his house and TV and Fan was running in the

house.
16 of 23

26. PW-4 Janaki Barman also disclosed that the victim narrated
before her that the accused at his house touched her breast and then
taking her in his lap, touched his penis in her private part and the
victim also informed her aunt Manisha about the incident. While
she(PW-4) inquired the victim why she went to the house of the
accused then the victim informed her that while she went to the
courtyard of the accused to bring pebbles then the accused called her
in to his house and let her to watch TV and then committed bad

works with her as described above.

27. Though there is some minor inconsistencies between the
testimony of PW-5 Manisha and PW-4 Janaki yet the said
inconsistencies are minor inconsistencies and do not go to the root of
the case. The evidence of the victim that she went to the house of
the accused to bring pebbles for playing “lash” is also supported by
her grandmother. The evidence of PW-4 and PW-5 that they both
noticed the victim coming out from the backside of the house of the

accused brings credence to the testimony of the victim.

28. | The mother of the victim who is examined as PW-2 and the
father of the victim PW-1 were not at their house at the time of
occurrence. The father of the victim went out for his work in the
morning and the mother of the victim went to the house of her sister-
in-law at Nalbari town. The mother of the victim testified that while
she returned back from the house of her sister-in-law at about 5.00
pm at that moment the victim told her crying that while she went to
the house of the accused to collect pebbles from his house for playing
“lash” then the accused invited her to his house to watch TV. While
she entered in to the house of the accused then the accused
increased the volume of the TV and the speed of the fan was also
increased. Thereafter the accused embraced her from back side and
removed her frock up to her shoulder and pressed her breast. It is
stated that while she screamed then the accused turned her facing

towards him and removing her panty tried to insert his penis in her
17 of 23

private part. She also disclosed that the victim informed her that
while the victim raised hue and cry asking for releasing her then
initially the accused did not release her but later on he sent her from

his house through the door of the back side of the house.

29. The father of the victim PW-1 revealed during his evidence
how his wife disclosed before him that the victim was sexually

assaulted by the accused in side his house.

30. PW-6 Karuna Kanta Barman the grandfather of the victim
disclosed that on the date of occurrence while he returned back to his
house after cutting bamboo at his basti then his wife PW-4 informed
him about the sexual assault caused upon the victim by the accused

at his house.

31. Nothing could be elicited by defence why these witnesses
would depose falsely against the accused. No material contradiction
could be brought out by defence during cross examination of these
witnesses. Though there is some minor contradictions, yet it cannot
negate their evidences. Nothing could be brought by the defence why
the close relatives of the victim who bears no enmity with the
accused will implicated the accused falsely. No close relatives of the
victim would concoct such a case against an

innocent person. Though the parents of the victim knew that
publication of such type of incident will create stigma in the chastity
of the victim and will cause problem in the future life of the victim yet
they dared to lodge the ejahar against the accused with a hope that
the victim would get justice for the heinous act done by the accused
upon her. No father would file a false case against a person involving
chastity of his own daughter. Though there is some minor
contradiction in the evidence of the mother of the victim with that of
their earlier statement before the I/O yet the said contradictions
cannot dislodge their whole evidence. It is found from the evidence

of the victim that she during her evidence disclosed that the accused
18 of 23

inserted his finger in her anus but it was not stated by her during her
statement recorded u/s-164 CrPC. For the said contradiction her

evidence cannot be thrown away.

32. The ejahar which was lodged on the next day of occurrence
also fully corroborated the evidence of the victim. Though there is
one day delay in lodging the ejahar yet it cannot create any doubt
regarding credibility of the evidence of the victim and her relatives.
The evidence of the mother of the victim shows that they first
informed the wife of the accused while she returned back from
market about the occurrence but the wife of the accused saying that
she would inquire about the matter at her house later on did not
reply on that day. They awaited till next date and thereafter her
husband lodged the ejahar. So there is justified ground for the one

day delay in lodging the ejahar.

33: The accused during his statement u/s- 313 CrPC as well as
during his evidence as DW-1 wanted to say that the victim on the
date of occurrence coming to his house touched the articles which
he purchased for the marriage ceremony of his daughter and
which was kept inside his room and for that reason he rebuking
the victim ousted her from his house by catching her hand through
the back door. He also disclosed that at that time his wife and his
sister-in-laws Kabita Barman, Jayanti Barman Himani Barman, Ranju
Barman and Manju Barman were also present at his house. However,
the mother of the victim during her evidence narrated that on the
date of occurrence at the house of the accused except the accused
no one was present. It is testified by the mother of the victim that
the wife of the accused and daughter of the accused went to the
market for purchasing articles for the marriage ceremony of the
daughter of the accused on that particular day and at the time of
going to the market the wife of the accused meeting her in front of
the house told her that they were going to market. This fact was not

challenged by the defence during cross examination and hence it
19 of 23

amounts to admission. The victim also disclosed in her evidence that
there was no one in the house of the accused at the time of

occurrence. Her evidence is found to be cogent and reliable.

34. Under the above circumstances the evidence of the accused
(DW-1), DW-2, DW-3, DW-4, and DW-5 that on the date of
occurrence while the victim came to the house of the accused at that
time DW-2 Himani, who is the wife of the accused, and other women
were present at his house is absolutely unbelievable. Though the
defence side adduced evidences of 5 Nos of DWs to show that the
wife of the accused and 4 other relatives of the accused were present
at his house at the time of alleged occurrence and no such incident
happened as testified by the victim and that actually the victim
caused annoyance by touching the articles gathered for marriage in
the house of the accused at the time of the alleged occurrence and
so the victim was chased from the house of the accused, yet the
evidence of the DWs are not worthy of credence as because during
cross examination of the victim, by suggesting that the accused
asked the victim to leave his house as none was at the house of the
accused, the accused admitted that the accused was alone in his
house at the time of occurrence. As such the evidence of DWs are
totally unreliable and unworthy of credence and cannot be relied

upon.

35. The father of the victim disclosed during his evidence that age
of the victim was 11 years at the time of occurrence. The victim also
disclosed her age as 12 years on the date of recording her evidence
which implies that her age was 11 years at the time of occurrence.
The father of the victim exhibited Paper Ext-1 as the birth certificate
of the victim. As per the Paper Ext-1 the date of birth of the victim is
18/05/18. The occurrence happened on 08/04/16. So from the
documentary evidence as well as from the evidence of the victim it

transpires that the age of the victim was 11 year at the time of
20 of 23

occurrence. It is established by the prosecution that the victim was a

minor girl, aged 11 years, at the time of occurrence.

36. Marshalling the evidence on record it appears that
prosecution, without any shadow of doubt, has established the fact
that on 08/04/16 the accused embraced the victim and then touched
and pressed the breasts of the victim after removing her frock up to
her shoulder. The accused also removed the panty of the victim and
entered his male organ through her legs from her backside and the
male organ from the back side came out to her front side through her
legs. It is established by the prosecution the accused caused sexual
assault upon the victim on 08/04/16 at about 3:00pm . It is also
established that the accused also caused sexual harassment upon the
victim by inserting his male organ thought the legs of the victim. It is
also established by the prosecution that the accused by removing the
panty and the frock up to her shoulder he tried to disrobe her by

using criminal force upon her.

37. Prosecution has well established a case u/s- 354B IPC
and section 8 and 12 of the POCSO Act, against the accused beyond
all reasonable doubt. Prosecution has failed to establish a case
against the accused u/s- 6 of the POCSO Act. The accused is
convicted u/s- 354B IPC and section 8 and 12 of the POCSO Act.

38. Heard the accused on the point of sentence. He submitted
that he is the only male person in his family and his wife is dependent
upon him and he prayed for showing him leniency. After hearing the
accused on the point of sentence, the accused is sentenced to
undergo S/I for 5 (five) years and also to pay a fine of Rs.10,000/-
i/d, further S/I for another 6 (six) months for committing offence u/s-
8 of the POCSO Act. He is also sentenced to to undergo S/I for 2
(two) years and also to pay a fine of Rs. 2,000/- i/d, further S/I for
another 2 (two) months for committing offences u/s- 12 of the

POCSO Act. He is also sentenced to undergo R/I for 3 (three) years
21 of 23

and also to pay fine of Rs. 10,000/- i/d S/I for another 6 (six) months
for committing offence u/s- 354B IPC. All the sentences will run
concurrently. The period of detention already undergone by the
accused shall be set off against the period of sentence u/s- 428 CrPC.

The fine, if realize, be paid to the victim.

39. It appears from the record that the victim who is a minor girl
and is little bit mentally retarded has suffered from trauma due to the
commission of rape upon her by the accused. Considering the mental
and physical suffering of the minor victim for the act done by the
accused, I feel that compensation should be given to the victim. The
matter of compensation is recommenced to the District Legal Service
Authority, Nalbari. The District Legal Service Authority, Nalbari will

decide the quantum of compensation to be awarded to the victim.

39. Seized birth certificate and disability certificate of the victim
be returned back to the father of the victim. Other seized articles be

destroyed in due course of time.

40. Judgment is pronounced at the open court in presence of the

accused.

41. Furnish a copy of judgment free of cost to the accused. Send
a copy of judgment to the District Magistrate, Nalbari and District
Legal Service Authority, Nalbari.

Judgment is given under my hand and seal of this
court on this the 20" day of December, 2018

Sessions Judge
Nalbari

Dictated & corrected by me
22 of 23

Sessions Judge, Nalbari

APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witness.

PW-1
PW-2
PW-3
PW-4
PW-5
PW-6
PW-7
PW-8

Kulen Barman (Informant)
Meghali Barman

“Miss X” (Victim)

Janaki Barman

Manisha Barman
Karunakanta Barman

Dr. Jonali Deka (M/O)
Jalilur Rahman (1/0)

B. Defence witness.

DW-1
DW-2
DW-3
DW-4
DW-5

Dayaram Barman (Accused)
Himani Barman

Kabita Barman

Jaymati Barman

Ranju Barman

C. Prosecution Exhibit.

Ext-1

Ejahar
Ext-2
Ext-3
Ext-5
Ext-6
Ext-7

23 of 23

Seizure List

Statement of the Victim u/s- 164 CrPC
Sketch map of PO

Seizure List

Charge sheet

Paper Ext-1 Birth Certificate of the victim
Paper Ext-2 Disability Certificate of the victim

Defence Exhibit.

Ext-"Ka”

Invitation card of marriage ceremony.

Sessions Judge
Nalbari
