 

U/S - 4 of the POCSO Act.

State
- Versus -
Dilwar Hussain Barbhuiya — wee eeeenee Accused.
PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,

Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Appearance and particulars :-

For the State ‘- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the accused person - Sri A.H. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.
Date of recording evidence ‘- 08.11.2018.

Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC  :- 12.11.2018.

Date of Argument t= 12.11.2018.

Date of Judgment  2,11.2008.

JUDGMENT

Fhe prosecution case, in brief, is that on 4.6.2018 the
informant Bilatun Nessa Laskar lodged an ejahar with the O/C, Hailakandi
Police Station alleging that on 4.6.2018 in the morning she went out of the
house, keeping her daughter i.e. the victim in the house and at about 4 PM
she returned to the house and on arrival in the house, the victim and
others informed that during her absence in the house, the accused person
Dilwar Hussain came to her house and took the victim inside the room of
their house forcefully and committed rape on the victim therein.

Contd....P/2.
« Bhs

Zs On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered as
Hailakandi Police Station case No. 413/2018 under Sec. 448/506/34, IPC
and during investigation, police visited the place of occurrence, drew up
rough sketch map thereof, recorded statements of witnesses, got the
victim medically examined and also got her statement recorded under
Sec. 164, CPC and after completion of investigation submitted charge
sheet against the accused person Dilwar Hussain Barbhuiya under Sec.
4 of the POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of accused person Dilwar Hussain
Barbhuiya, copies of relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC

were furnished to him.

4. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.
Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record,
having found sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person
has committed the offence, the formal charge has been framed against
the accused person Dilwar Hussain Barbhuiya under Sec. 4 of the POCSO
Act. The charge so framed was read over and explained to the accused
person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried. Hence,
the trial.

5. In the instant case, the prosecution has examined 2
Nos. of Pws including the victim and the informant of the case.
Thereafter, on submission of Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence
Counsel, the prosecution evidence was closed. The accused person is
examined under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein he has denied the allegations
levelled against him by the prosecution. The defence did not adduce any
evidence.

6. Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record.

Contd....P/3.
7. POINT FOR DETERMINATION --

Whether the accused person on 04.06.2018 in the
Evening at village Balikandi Pt. | under Hailakandi PS committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim, as alleged?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :-

8. The PW. 1, the victim, has deposed that during the
month of last Ramjan, one day at about 12 Noon, she was in her house
and then she eloped with the accused as she had love affair with him and
at that time, she was 18 years old. It is further deposed by the victim that
her mother did not agree to the relation and as such, she filed the case
and subsequently, she got married the accused and she has been living

with the accused as his wife peacefully.
In cross examination, the victim has stated that she

has got no accusation against the accused.

9. The PW. 2, Bilatun Nessa Laskar, the mother of the
victim, has deposed that one day she did not find her daughter in the
house and then she filed the case putting her thumb impression. It is
further deposed by the informant that subsequently, police recovered her
daughter from the house of accused and then the informant came to know
that her daughter got married with the accused out of love affair and at

present she is residing with the accused peacefully.
In cross examination, the witness has stated that she

can not say the contents of the FIR.

10. In the instant case, the evidence of the victim is of
much importance in deciding the case. In her evidence she has made the
fact clear that on the relevant day she eloped with the accused as she had
love affair with him and got married the accused and at that time, she
was aged 18 years and presently, she has been living with the accused
Contd....P/4.
Special (P an 2 se No. 17/2018.

_4-

peacefully. The informant (PW. 2), who is the mother of victim supporting
the contention of the victim has reiterated the fact that out of love affair,
the victim got married the accused and at present she is residing in the
house of accused peacefully. As such, when the victim herself as well as
the informant has not supported their own case, I.do not find any cogent
reason to hold the accused person guilty for the commission of the
offence, alleged.

11. Accordingly, it can be safely held that the prosecution
failed to prove its case against the accused person beyond all reasonable
doubt.

12. The accused person Dilwar Hussain Barbhuiya is
acquitted of the offence charged under Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. Set him
at liberty forthwith.

13. The bail bond of the accused stands discharged.

14, Send a copy of this judgment to the Ld. District
Magistrate, Hailakandi.

1S.. The judgment is delivered today, on this the 12" day

of November, 2018. 9 \% “
\\-
(<<

| d
SPECIAD jaite

Dictated and corrected by me :- WAILAKAND}

   

SPECIAL
HAILAKAND)

Dictation is taken and transcribed by Baharul Islam Choudhury,
Stenographer Grade I. Contd....P/5.
Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, the victim.

PW. 2, Bilatun Nessa.
Documentary evidences :-
Nil.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

gt
aa!

SPECIAL JOPGP
HAILAKANDI
