IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE ttittiteccsssssssests HATLAKANDI,

Special POCSO (T-1) Case No. 14/2017

(Under Section 8 of the POCSO Act)

 

State
-Versus-

JiabUddinLaskar i “<Gsids Accused.

PRESENT : Shri D. Bhattacharjee, AJS,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.
Particul A rances :-
For the State :- Shri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the Accused :- Shri J.U. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.
Dates of recording prosecution evidence :- 21.12.2017, 04.01.2018 &
18.01.2018.

Dates of recording defence evidence :- 26.02.2018.
Date of recording statement U/S 313 of Cr.P.C. :- 24.01.2018.
Date of Argument i= 25:03.2018.
Date of Judgment :- 31.03.2018.

JUDGMENT
ds Since in the present case the sexual assault of minor

girl is in issue, for the welfare of the child, her identity is not disclosed and as
such, hereinafter she is referred to as “victim”.

2. The prosecution case as evolved from the FIR lodged
on 01.10.2017 by one Sri Sudip Deb with the Officer-in-charge, Katlicherra
Police Station is that on 30.09.2017 on the night of Vijaya Dashmi, at about 11

 
Special POCSO (T-1) Case No. 14/2017
=

P.M. he along with his wife, child, family members and others went to
immersion ghat in a vehicle for immersion of the idol of deity Devi Durga of
their house. In the immersion ghat, keeping his six years old daughter viz. the
victim in the vehicle under the custody of accused, they went for immersion of
the idol of Devi Durga. But, on getting the victim alone, the accused in order to
effectuate his evil intention started pulling her wearing cloths, touched her
entire body and attempted to commit inhuman acts, then the victim out of fear
raised hue and cry and on hearing the same, nearby people came and rescued
her from the clutch of accused. As a result, the victim has suffered tremendous
mental agony.

3. On receipt of the ejahar, Katlicherra P.S. Case No.
149/2017 was registered under Section 8 of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (in short hereinafter referred to as ‘POCSO Act’) and
S.I. of Police, Sri Kalyan Bora was entrusted to investigate the case. During
investigation, police visited the place of occurrence, prepared rough sketch
map thereof, recorded the statements of witnesses, got the victim medically
examined, got her statement recorded under Section 164 of Cr.P.C., arrested
the accused person Jiab Uddin Laskar and forwarded him to the court and after
completion of investigation, having been found prima facie case submitted
charge sheet against the accused Jiab Uddin Laskar under Section 8 of POCSO
Act.

4. As per statutory provisions, the copies of relevant
materials furnished to the accused person. After hearing the Ld. Public
Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence counsel and after perusal of materials available
on record, having been found sufficient grounds for presuming that the
accused person Jiab Uddin Lasker has committed the offence, formal charge
was framed against him under Section 8 of POCSO Act. The charge so framed
was read over and explained to the accused, to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. The prosecution in order to prove its case examined

 

 
Special POCSO (T-1) Case No. 14/2017
«3Z-
altogether 6 PWs. including M.O. and I.0. The defence plea is of total denial.
The accused person was examined under Section 313 of Cr.P.C. wherein he
denied all such incriminating materials brought in evidence against him by the
prosecution witnesses. The defence side also examined two witnesses as DWs.-
1&2.

6. Heard argument of the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the
Ld. Defence counsel.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION

Whether the accused person on 30.09.2017 at 11 P.M.
under Katlicherra Police Station committed sexual assault on the victim as six
years old minor girl and thereby committed an offence punishable under
Section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

7. At the very outset, it is apposite to go through the
evidence available on record. The relevant evidence adduced by the
prosecution witnesses are reproduced below:

The PW-1, victim, a six years old girl has deposed that
in the last Durga Puja held in their house, on the night of Vijaya Dashmi, they
took the idol of Deity Durga in a truck for immersion. At that time, her parents
and cousin were also in the said truck. After their arrival at immersion ghat, her
parents and others got down from the truck and went for immersion but she
was in the truck. At that time, accused Jiab Uddin Lasker caught her, inserted
his hand inside her pant and touched her body. She caught his hair and tried to
push him. Thereafter, her parents came and then she disclosed the entire
incident to them. Police took her to the hospital and also to the court where
she narrated the entire incident to a Magistrate, Ext.-1 is the said statement
and Ext.-1(1) and 1(2) are her signatures.

In cross examination, she has stated that it was not

 
Special POCSO (T-1) Case No. 14/2017
or
dark at the relevant time. Keeping her alone in the truck, all went for

immersion and after sometime her parents came, she narrated the entire
incident to them.

The defence could not bring out any omission or
inconsistency in the evidence of the victim.

8. The PW-2, Smt. Anamika Deb, mother of the victim has
deposed that in the year 2017, Durga Puja held in their house and on the night
of Vijaya Dashami, all the family members including the victim went to the
immersion ghat in a truck for immersion of the idol of Deity Durga and in the
immersion ghat, they all got down from the truck but since the victim was a
small child, for the purpose of safety, they kept her in the truck. It is further
stated that at that time, the driver of the truck was there. While they all were
busy in the process of immersion, her elder brother-in-law informed them that
the victim was crying in the truck, then her husband and all of them rushed to
the truck and found the accused Jiab Uddin sitting in the cabin of the truck
near her daughter and her daughter was crying. At that time, the driver of the
truck was not there. The accused was handyman of the truck. On being asked
by them, the victim told that the accused touched her body and inserted his
hand inside her pant. In the meantime, police came. Police took her daughter
to the hospital.

In cross examination, she has stated that she did not
see the incident but her daughter narrated the entire incident to her. She has
further stated that though it was dark night, there was electric light in the
street due to immersion.

9. The PW-3, Dr. Ajgar Ali Ahmed has deposed that on
30.09.2017 at about 11:50 P.M. at Katlicherra Block P.H.C., on police
requisition, he examined the victim a six years old girl and found no external
injury on the person of the victim. Ext.-2 is the medical report and Ext.-2(1) is
his signature.

SO is aaa P/5.

 
ecial POC T-1 No. 14/2017
al.

In cross examination, he has stated that from the
victim and her parents, he came to know that the victim was molested by the
accused who had touched her different private parts and accordingly, he noted
down the history in his report.

10. The PW-4, Sri Sudip Deb, father of the victim has
deposed that he is the informant of this case. In the last year, there was Durga
Puja in their house. On 30.09.2017, on the night of Vijaya Dashami, they took
out procession of Deity Durga in a truck bearing Registration No. AS-24-C-5472
for the purpose of immersion. In immersion ghat, on the bank of river
Dhaleswari, many people gathered and considering the safety of his child viz,
the victim, they kept her inside the truck and all of them went to the river for
immersion. At that time, accused was standing near the truck. He has further
stated that the accused was all along in the truck since the very inception of
the procession as the accused was handyman of the truck. In the immersion
ghat, his cousin Chandan Das Gupta reported him that his daughter was crying
in the truck, then he ran to the truck and found the accused sitting in the truck
near his daughter and his daughter was crying. He has further reported that on
being asked, his daughter reported him that the accused was doing bad act
with her. On further query, the victim told him that the accused touched her
body and put his hand inside her pant. In the meantime, many people gathered
and since the police were on duty in the immersion ghat, they also arrived and
took the accused in their custody. On the same night, he lodged the ejahar.
Police took his daughter to the hospital and also got her statement recorded by
a Magistrate. The Ext.-3 is the said ejahar lodged by him and Ext.-3(1) is his
signature.

In cross examination, he has deposed that they took
idols in three numbers of trucks. The distance between the place where the
vehicle was parked and the place of immersion is around 30 meters. Around
one thousand people gathered there in the immersion ghat. He has further
stated that while he kept his daughter in the vehicle, the driver and handyman
both were present there. CN ccccicaed P/6.

 
ial POCSO (T-1 No. 14/2017
-6-

11. The PW-5, Sri Chandan Das Gupta has deposed that on
the night of Vijaya Dashami of last Durga Puja, they all came in truck with
Deity Durga to immersion ghat. At about 11 P.M. when all the members went
to immersion ghat and when he was about to proceed towards immersion ghat,
he heard the victim was crying inside the truck and the accused was sitting
near her. On being asked about the reason of her Cry, she stated that the
accused was doing wrong with her and she asked her to call her Pappa, then
he ran towards immersion ghat and informed the father of the victim about the
incident. In the meantime, her father also case. In his presence, the victim
disclosed her father that the accused touched her body and put his hand inside
her pant. Thereafter, police came and took the accused in custody.

In cross examination, he has stated that there were
three trucks and the other two trucks were kept a bit far from the truck in
which the incident occurred. He has further stated that before the immersion of
idol, the incident occurred.

12. The PW-6, Sri Kalyan Bora has deposed that on
01.10.2017 at about 11:30 A.M. the Officer-in-charge, Sri Nitai Chan Singh had
received the Ext.-3, ejahar lodged by one Sudip Deb and accordingly, he
registered the case vide Katlicherra P.S. Case No. 149/2017 under Section 8 of
POCSO Act and he was entrusted by the Officer-in-charge to investigate the
case. On 30.09.2017 the victim was medically examined. He has further stated
that the accused was handyman of the vehicle. On completion of investigation,
he submitted charge sheet against the accused Jiab Uddin Laskar under Section
8 of the POCSO Act.

In cross examination, he has stated that the date of
occurrence was on 30.09.2017 at 11 P.M.

13. The DW-1, Sri Ranjan Malakar has deposed that on the
last Durga Puja in the night of Dashami he went to the immersion ghat with
idol of Deity Durga of Katlicherra Bazar Club. Many people gathered there to
watch the immersion. After the immersion was over, at about 11 P.M. he left

 
Special POCSO (T-1) Case No. 14/2017

a Fu
the immersion ghat. There he saw the accused Jiab Uddin who is a daily wage
earner. He has further stated that he cannot Say if the accused was working as

handyman. He did not see any truck in the immersion ghat but he saw only
people there.

In cross examination by prosecution, he has stated that
he has appeared in the court on request of accused person.

14, The DW-2, Smt. Chandana Malakar has deposed that
the accused is a daily wage earner and on the day of Dashami of last Durga
Puja, the accused went with them to the immersion ghat. At around 12 A.M.
the immersion completed. During immersion, they noticed that there was tussle
taking place and then they left the place. After reaching home, they came to
know that the tussle was with the accused person.

In cross examination by prosecution, she has stated
that during entire immersion programme, once she noticed the accused. She
did not notice the DW-1 in the immersion ghat.

15. In the backdrop of above evidence, from the Ext.-3,
FIR, it is revealed that there was Durga Puja in the house of informant in the
year 2017 and on 30.09.2017, on the night of Vijaya Dashami the informant
and his family members along with his six year minor child viz. the victim, went
to the immersion ghat in a truck for immersion of the idol of Deity Durga where
keeping the victim in the truck under the care and custody of accused, they
went to the immersion ghat for immersion of the idol and at that time, the
accused touched the body of the victim and also inserted his hand inside her
pant.

16. The victim PW-1 who is a six years old girl in her
evidence has very categorically stated that after arrival at immersion ghat, her
parents and others got down from the truck and went for immersion of the
Deity Durga and she was in the truck, at that time, accused Jiab Uddin caught
her, inserted his hand inside her pant and touched her body. The above

 
 

ial P T-1 14/2017
-8-

evidence of the victim could not be demolished by the defence in cross
examination. The victim’s evidence was recorded after being satisfied about her
maturity of understanding. The defence even could not bring out any
contradiction in the testimony of the victim. The above evidence of the victim is
very much corroborative to her statement recorded under section u/s 164 of
Cr. P. C marked as Ext. 1.

17. The victim has further stated that immediately her
parents came and she had narrated the entire incident to them. The evidence
of PW-5 is that while he was going to the immersion ghat, he heard cry of the
victim and at that time, the accused was sitting near her. It is also found that
he asked the victim as to why she was crying then the victim replied that the
accused was doing something wrong with her and she told him to call her
Pappa. Then, the PW-5 ran to the immersion ghat and informed the father of
the victim about the same. The evidence of PW-5 also remained unshaken as
the defence could not bring out any contradiction therein. The PW-4, the father
of the victim has deposed that while he was in the immersion ghat, in the river,
the PW-5 ran to him and reported that his daughter was crying in the truck.
Therefore, the evidence of PW-5 is found very much consistent and receives
support from the evidence of PW-4 that he ran to the immersion ghat and
reported about the incident to the PW-4. The clear evidence of PW-5 is that on
hearing cry of victim in the truck, he went there and saw the accused sitting
near her and then the victim reported him about the wrong done by the
accused to her and she also told the PW-5 to call her Pappa and accordingly,
the PW-5 informed her Pappa.

18. The PW-5 has stated that the victim has narrated the
entire incident to her father in his presence and she has also narrated that the
accused touched her body and put his hand inside her pant. The PW-2, mother
and PW-4, father of the victim have very categorically stated that considering
the safety of their child, keeping her inside the truck, they all went to river for
immersion and at that time, the accused was present there who was handyman
of the truck and at that time, the PW-5 came and reported them that their

 
 

Special POCSO (T-1) Case No. 14/2017
-9-
daughter was crying in the truck and then they ran to the truck and found the
accused sitting in the cabin of the truck near their daughter. They have further
stated that the victim reported them that the accused touched her body and
inserted his hand inside her pant. The evidence of PWs.-2 and 4 also
corroborated each other and very much consistent with the evidence of victim
and PW-5. The victim has stated that the accused person touched her body
and inserted his hand inside her pant. The PW-5 has stated that he saw the
accused sitting near the victim and the victim was crying. The PWs- 2 & 4 have
stated that immediate after getting the information, they came to the truck and
found the accused sitting near the victim.

19. The victim has stated that she has narrated the entire
incident to her parents. The parents of the victim also have testified
consistently that the victim reported them that the accused touched her body
and put his hand inside her pant.

20. The honourable Supreme Court in Suryanarayana v.
State of Karnataka, (2001) 9 SCC 129 at page 133 has held as follows:

"5. Admittedly, Bhavya (PW 2), who at the time of occurrence was about four
years of age, is the only solitary eyewitness who was rightly not given the oath.
The time and place of the occurrence and the attending circumstances of the
case suggest no possibility of there being any other Person as an eyewitness.
The evidence of the child witness cannot be rejected per se, but the court, as a
rule of prudence, is required to consider such evidence with close scrutiny and
only on being convinced about the quality of the statements and its reliability,
base conviction by accepting the statement of the child witness. The evidence
of PW 2 cannot be discarded only on the ground of her being of tender age.
The fact of PW 2 being a child witness would require the court to scrutinise her
evidence with care and caution. If she is shown to have stood the test of cross-
examination and there is no infirmity in her evidence, the Prosecution can
rightly claim a conviction based upon her testimony alone. Corroboration of the
testimony of a child witness is not a rule but a measure of caution and

 
Special POCSO (T-1) Case No. 14/2017
-10-

prudence. Some discrepancies in the statement of a child witness cannot be
made the basis for discarding the testimony. Discrepancies in the deposition, if
not in material particulars, would lend credence to the testimony of a child
witness who, under the normal circumstances, would like to mix-up what the
witness saw with what he or she is likely to imagine to have seen. While
appreciating the evidence of the child witness, the courts are required to rule
out the possibility of the child being tutored. In the absence of any allegation
regarding tutoring or using the child witness for ulterior purposes of the
Prosecution, the courts have no option but to rely upon the confidence inspiring
testimony of such witness for the Purposes of holding the accused guilty or
not.”

In the instant case the incident occurred on 30.09.2017
and the victim adduced evidence in the court on 21.12.2017 i.e. within three
months of the incident while her memory was very fresh. The victim has faced
cross examination but the defence side could not bring out any contradiction
and inconsistency in her testimony. Moreover, her testimony has received
corroboration from the evidence of PW 5 that he saw the accused sitting near
the victim and she was crying and also received corroboration from the
evidence PWs 2 and 4 her parents that on their arrival they found the accused
sitting in the cabin near their daughter. Moreover, on the relevant night itself
the victim was medially examined and the accused was apprehended and
arrested by police.

21. The victim is a six years old child and a student of
Class-I at Saint Captano School. Her father PW-4, is an Assistant Inspector of
Excise, Silchar. The accused is a resident under P.S. Katlicherra, Hailakandi and
is a daily wage earner and on the relevant night of occurrence he was
handyman of the vehicle by which the idol was carried up to the immersion
ghat. Nothing has been brought on record to show any enmity between the
informant side and the accused. Under the facts and circumstances, there is no
reason to disbelieve the evidence of victim, her parents and PW-5.

COMGG ji cccssia P/11.

 
Special POCSO (T-1) Case No. 14/2017

a4.
22. The Ld. Defence counsel during argument has
submitted that the accused was not present there at the relevant time and he

has been implicated in the instant case falsely. In support of his contention, he
has relied on the evidence of DWs.- 1 & 2.

23. The above evidence of DWs.- 1 & 2 is not at all
confidence inspiring as both the them appeared to depose on the request of
accused person and their evidence could not in any way negate the case of
prosecution. However, their evidence has confirmed the presence of accused in
the immersion ghat. The evidence of prosecution witnesses is very much
consistent to the fact that at the relevant time, due to immersion, police
personnel were on duty and on seeing the occurrence they came and
apprehended the accused.

24. From the above discussion of evidence on record, it is
surfaced that the accused person had touched the body of the victim a six
years old minor girl and also inserted his hand inside her pant.

25. The accused person has been charged u/s 8 of the
POCSO Act. 2012 which reads as follows:

"8. Punishment for sexual assault. - whoever, commits sexual assault,
Shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a term
which shall not be less than three years but which may extend to five
years and shall also be liable to fine.”

Section 7 of the POCSO Act, defines ‘sexual assault’

"7. Sexual Assault.- whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina,
penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina,
penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person, or does any
other act with sexual intent which involves Physical contact without
penetration is said to commit sexual assault.”

Reverting back to the case at hand, it is appeared that the accused person with
IG icsctacins P/12.,

 
Special POCSO (T-1) Case No. 14/2017
af Bs
sexual intent had touched the body of the victim and put his hand inside her
pant. Therefore, the case comes within the four corners of Section 8 of the
POCSO Act.

26. In view of above discussion, it can be safely held that
the prosecution is able to prove its case against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubt.

27. Accordingly, the accused person Jiab Uddin
Laskar is convicted u/s 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.

28. Heard the convict on the point of sentence and his
statement was recorded in a separate sheet appended to the record. He has
stated that he has got his family and he is the sole earning member and his
detention in the jail would cause great hardship to them. He has pleaded for
leniency.

29. Considering gravity of the crime and its impacts on the
society as well as on the victim who has just started introducing with the world,
according to me, the following punishment would meet the ends of justice.

The convict Jiab Uddin Laskar is sentenced to
Rigorous Imprisonment for 4 (four) years and to pay fine of Rs.
3,000/-, in default of payment of fine, further Rigorous Imprisonment
for 2 (two) months.

Fine if realised shall be paid to the victim.

30. The period of detention already underwent by the
convict during investigation and trial shall be set off from the sentence.

31. The bail bond of the convict stands discharged.
32. Furnish a free copy of the judgment to the convict
immediately.

I sistccsic P/13.

 
ial PO T-1) Case No. 14/2017

-13-
33. Send a copy of this judgment to the District Magistrate,
Hailakandi.
34. The Special POCSO case is disposed of accordingly.
35. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the

31% day of March, 2018 at Hailakandi.

g a
UY hr
Special Ju L
Henalaa™ °°

Dictated and corrected by me: DI

Special Judge, Hailakandi.
PMGESSIONS JUDC™
HAILAKAND|

COMA sicnsings P/14.

 
Special POCSO (T-1) Case No. 14/2017

-14-
Appendix :-

Oral Evidences :-

PW-1, Sunakshi Deb.

PW-2, Smt. Anamika Deb.
PW-3, Dr. Ajgar Ali Ahmed.
PW-4, Sri Sudip Deb.

PW-5, Sri Chandan Dasgupta
PW-6, Sri Kalyan Bora.

Documentary Evidences :-

Ext.-1, Statement of victim.
Ext.-2, Medical report.
Ext.-3, Ejahar.

Ext.-4, FIR Form.

Ext.-5, Sketch map of the place of occurrence.

Ext.-6, Charge sheet.

Defence Evidences.
DW-1, Ranjan Malakar.
DW-2, Smt. Chandana Malakar.

 

\4

at
