1 Special (POCSO) Case No.69/2019.

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE : LAKHIMPUR :
AT NORTH LAKHIMPUR.

PRESENT-  M.A.Choudhury,
Special Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.69/2019.
Under Section - 366 IPC and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

PARTIES

State of Assam. ... Complainant.
-versus-

Sri Dipjyoti Borah. ... Accused.

ADVOCATES APPEARED IN THE CASE :

Mr. Madhab Gogoi, Special Public Prosecutor. ... For the State of Assam.

Mrs. Gitanjali Gogoi, Advocate. ... For the Accused.
Date of framing of charge. : 08.08.2019.
Date of taking evidence. : 31.08.2019.
Date of hearing Argument. : 31.08.2019.

Date of delivery of Judgment.  : 09.09.2019.

UDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution side may, in brief, be
described thus :

The informant, Sri Prasanna Chetia on 01.12.2018,
lodged an ejahar with Dhakuakhana Police Station to the effect that on
16.11.2018 at about 11 pm at night, his daughter victim X had been
kidnapped by the accused, Sri Dipjyoti Borah from his house. In the
ejahar, it is stated that as they were engaged in searching the victim X,
delay had been caused in filing the ejahar.

Contd...
2 Special (POCSO) Case No.69/2019.

2. On receiving the ejahar, the Officer-in-charge of
Dhakuakhana Police Station registered a case vide Dhakuakhana PS.
Case No.196/2018 under Section 366(A) IPC.

3. The police started the investigation of the case.
In course of investigation, the 1.0. visited the place of occurrence and
prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence. The 1.0. recorded
the statements of the witnesses u/s 161 CrPC. On 28.03.2019, the
accused, Sri Dipjyoti Borah had surrendered before the learned Sub
Divisional Judicial Magistrate (M), Dnakuakhana, and he was remanded
to the judicial custody. Thereafter, the 1.0. got the victim X medically
examined by the doctor at North Lakhimpur Civil Hospital. The |.0. got
recorded the statement of the victim X u/s 164 CrPC in the court. The
1.0. seized the Birth Certificate of the victim X issued by the Ghillamara
PHC, Dist. Lakhimpur. The I.O. after completion of investigation of the
case on being found sufficient incriminating materials against the
accused, Sri Dipjyoti Borah under Sections 366(A)/ 376 (3) IPC RW
Section 4 of the POCSO Act, submitted the charge-sheet against the
accused, Sri Dipjyoti Borah under Sections 366(A)/ 376 (3) IPC and
under Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

4. The learned Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate
(M), Dnhakuakhana, vide order dtd. 26.06.2019 forwarded the case to
this court as the offence under Section 4 of the POCSO Act is triable by
the Special Judge.

5. The accused, Sri Dipjyoti Borah made _ his
appearance before the court and necessary copies were furnished to
him. After hearing the learned advocates of both sides and perusing
the case record, on being found sufficient incriminating materials
against the accused, Sri Dipjyoti Borah under Section 366 IPC and
under Section 4 of the POCSO Act in the case record, the charges under
Section 366 IPC and under Section 4 of the POCSO Act had been
framed against the accused, Sri Dipjyoti Borah. The charges were read

Contd...
3 Special (POCSO) Case No.69/2019.

over and explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.

6. In course of trial, the prosecution side examined
5 (five) witnesses.

7. The recording of the statement of the accused
person u/s 313 CrPC is felt not necessary as because the prosecution
witnesses examined have not implicated the accused person in their

evidence regarding commission of any offence.

8. The accused person led no evidence in his
defence.

9. Heard Argument from the learned advocates of
both sides.

10. Perused the case record and the evidence
adduced by the prosecution witnesses in the case very carefully.

11. The points for determination in this case are :

(1) Whether the accused, Sri Dipjyoti Borah on
16.11.2018 at about 11 pm at night at village, Ghatapara Itakhuli gaon
under Dhakuakhana Police Station, Dist. Lakhimpur, kidnapped the
victim X, a minor girl above the age of 12 years with intent that she
might be compelled or knowing it to be likely that she would be
compelled to marry the accused person or that she might be forced or
seduced to illicit intercourse with him?

(Il) Whether the accused, Sri Dipjyoti Borah after
kidnapping the victim X, a minor girl above the age of 12 years,

committed penetrative sexual assault on her person?

Contd...
4 Special (POCSO) Case No.69/2019.

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

12. PW.1 is the victim X. PW.1, the victim X in her
evidence stated that the informant, Sri Prasanna Chetia is her father.
She in her evidence stated that she did not know the accused person.
According to her evidence, the occurrence had taken place in the year,
2018 in the month of November. On the date of occurrence in the
evening, she went to the house of her friend, named Smti Ankita
Chamua, situated at village, Machkhowa, to attend a marriage
ceremony without informing in her house. She in her evidence stated
that she stayed for some days in the house of her friend, Smti Ankita
Chamua. After some days, she returned back to her house. Then, she
came to know that her father had lodged an ejahar with the Police
Station alleging that she had been missing from the house. According
to her evidence, thereafter, the police had taken her and got her
medically examined by a doctor. The 1.0. got her statement recorded
u/s 164 CrPC. She in her evidence also stated that the accused person
neither kidnapped her nor performed any sexual intercourse with her.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.1, the victim X.
On a careful scrutiny of her evidence, | do not find any incriminating
material in her evidence against the accused person regarding

commission of any offence.

13. PW.2, Smti Dibya Chetia is the mother of the
victim X. She in her evidence stated that the victim X is her daughter.
Sri Prasanna Chetia is her husband. She in her evidence stated that she
did not know the accused person of this case. According to her
evidence, in the month of November of the year, 2018, her daughter
victim X had been missing from her house. Thereafter, they searched
for their daughter victim X, but could not find her. Then, her husband
lodged the ejahar with the Police Station regarding missing of her
daughter victim X. After few days, the victim X had returned back to
their house. Then, the victim X stated to her that she had gone to the
house of her friend, named Smti Ankita Chamua at village, Machkhowa

Contd...
5 Special (POCSO) Case No.69/2019.

to attend a marriage ceremony. She in her evidence also stated that
the victim X stated that the accused person neither kidnapped her nor

performed any sexual intercourse with her.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.2, Smti Dibya
Chetia, the mother of the victim X. On a careful scrutiny of her
evidence, | do not find any incriminating material in her evidence

against the accused person regarding commission of any offence.

14. PW.3, Sri Prasanna Chetia is the father of the
victim X as well as informant of the case. PW.3, Sri Prasanna Chetia in
his evidence stated that the victim X is his daughter. He in his evidence
also stated that he did not know the accused person, who has been
present in the accused dock of the Camera Trial room. According to his
evidence, the occurrence had taken place in the month of November of
the year, 2018. On the date of occurrence, his daughter victim X was
found missing from his house. Then, he along with other family
members searched for the victim X, but could not find her. After some
days, his daughter victim X came back to his house. Then, the victim X
stated that she had gone to Machkhowa in the house of her friend
namely, Smti Ankita Chamua, to attend a marriage ceremony. The
victim X also stated to him that the accused person had neither
kidnapped her nor performed any sexual act with her.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.3, Sri Prasanna
Chetia, the father of the victim X as well as informant of the case. On a
careful scrutiny of his evidence, | do not find any incriminating material
in his evidence against the accused person regarding commission of
any offence.

15. PW.4, Sri Jyoti Chetia in his evidence stated that

the informant, Sri Prasanna Chetia is his brother-in-law and the victim X

is the daughter of Sri Prasanna Chetia. He in his evidence stated that

he did not know the accused person, who has been present in the
accused dock of the Camera Trial room. He in his evidence stated that

Contd...
6 Special (POCSO) Case No.69/2019.

his house is situated nearby the house of Sri Prasanna Chetia.
According to his evidence, the occurrence had taken place in the
month of November of the year, 2018. His brother-in-law, Sri Prasanna
Chetia stated to him that the victim X had been missing from the
house. Then, he along with Sri Prasanna Chetia and Smti Dibya Chetia,
who is the wife of Sri Prasanna Chetia, searched for the victim X, but
could not find her. Thereafter, Sri Prasanna Chetia lodged the ejahar
with the Police Station. After some days, the victim X returned back to
her house. He in his evidence stated that then, he met with the victim
X in her house. Then, the victim X stated that she had gone to the
house of her friend, named Smti Ankita Chamua at village, Machkhowa,
to attend a marriage ceremony. He in his evidence also stated that the
victim X had stated to him that the accused person had neither
kidnapped her nor performed any sexual act with her.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.4, Sri Jyoti
Chetia. On a careful scrutiny of his evidence, | do not find any
incriminating material in his evidence against the accused person

regarding commission of any offence.

16. PW.5, Sri Keshab Chetia in his evidence stated
that he knows the informant, Sri Prasanna Chetia. The house of the
informant, Sri Prasanna Chetia is situated in his village. He in his
evidence stated that he knows the victim X, who is the daughter of Sri
Prasanna Chetia. He in his evidence also stated that he did not know
the accused person, who has been present in the accused dock of the
Camera Trial room. According to his evidence, the occurrence had
taken place in the month of November of the year, 2018. After 2 /4
days from the date of occurrence, he came to know from the village
people that the victim X had been missing from her house. Thereafter,
he came to know from the village people that the victim X had returned
back to the house of her father. He in his evidence also stated that he
did not know where the victim X had gone from the house of her father.
He also stated that he had not enquired about it.

Contd...
7 Special (POCSO) Case No.69/2019.

This is the evidence adduced by PW.5, Sri Keshab
Chetia. On a careful scrutiny of his evidence, | do not find any
incriminating material in his evidence against the accused person

regarding commission of any offence.

17. Because of what have been discussed and
pointed out here-in-above, it is appeared that the prosecution side has
totally failed to prove the charges under Section 366 IPC and under
Section 4 of the POCSO Act brought against the accused, Sri Dipjyoti
Borah. The accused person deserves to be acquitted.

18. I, therefore, hold the accused, Sri Dipjyoti Borah
not guilty and acquit him from the charges under Section 366 IPC and
under Section 4 of the POCSO Act. The accused person is set at his
liberty forthwith.

19. The bail bond of the accused person is
cancelled and his surety is discharged.

20. The seized article be handed over to the person

from whom, it was seized.

21. Given under my hand and seal of this court on
this the 9" day of September, 2019.

(M. A. Choudhury )
Special Judge,

Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
Dictated & corrected by me -

( M.A.Choudhury )
Special Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.

Transcribed & typed by-

Sri Satyabrata Kshattry, Stenographer.
Contd...
8 Special (POCSO) Case No.69/2019.

APPENDIX
1. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE PROSECUTION SIDE :

PW.1 - Victim X.

PW.2 - Smti Dibya Chetia, the mother of the victim X.

PW.3 - Sri Prasanna Chetia, the informant of the case as well as father
of the victim X.

PW.4 - Sri Jyoti Chetia.

PW.5 - Sri Keshab Chetia.

2. WITNESSES EXAMINED BY THE DEFENCE SIDE :
Nil.

3. DOCUMENTS PRODUCED BY THE PROSECUTION SIDE IN THE CASE :
Nil.

4. DOCUMENTS PRODUCED BY THE DEFENCE SIDE IN THE CASE :
Nil.

( M. A. Choudhury )
Special Judge,
Lakhimpur, North Lakhimpur.
