1

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.

Special P.O.C.S.O. Act CASE NO. 08 OF 2017
Under Section 448 IPC R/W Section 4 of P.O.C.S.O. Act, 2012
Present:- Smti. C. R. Goswami, A.J.S.,

Special Judge, Barpeta

State of Assam.

-Versus-
Anowar Hussain ...... Accused.
APPEARANCE

For the Prosecution : Mr. Lohit Nath, learned P.P.
For the accused : Mr. N.M.H. Rahman, learned Advocate.
Evidence recorded on : 02-06-2017, 15-07-2017, 28-07-2017

15-05-2018.
Argument heard on : 12-06-2018,
Judgment delivered on : 26.06.2018.

} U D G M E N T

1. The prosecution case, as narrated in the FIR lodged on
03.12.2016 is interalia that his daughter, here-in-after called as “X”,
whose date of birth is 23.03.2001, was a student of class IX. On
01.12.2016 at night the victim alongwith her brother Sanidul Islam were
sleeping in separate beds in the same room. Sanidul Islam came out from

the room for his natural call. In the meantime, taking advantage of
2

opening door, accused Anowar Hussain, armed with dagger, entered into
the house and showing the dagger, restrained the victim from creating
hulla and committed rape on her. Her mouth was tied with cloths. As the
electrical light was lighting, the accused person could be identified
specifically. The victim was out of the room tying her mouth with an
intention to kill her thinking that the victim may call bichar in the samaj.
Removing the cloths from the mouth, while she shouted, the father of the
victim woke up and went to the place of occurrence along with the
witnesses named in the FIR and rescued the victim. But the accused
person snatched away the gold chain from the neck of the victim. While
she prevented it, she was assaulted causing injury on her face and neck.
In the samaj bichar, it was assured that the accused would marry the
victim on 03.12.2016, but in the meantime he married another girl.
2. On the basis of the F.I.R. police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation submitted charge
sheet against accused Anowar Hussain under section 448/506 I.P.C. R/W
section 4 of POCSO Act.
3. The accused person appeared before this court, copies were
furnished to him and after hearing both the parties charge was framed
against the accused person under section 448 IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO
Act. Charge was read over and clearly explained to the accused person to
which he pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.
4. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined as many
as 8(eight) witnesses including the medical officer. Accused was
examined under section 313 Cr.P.C. wherein he has taken the plea of total
denial and declined to adduce any evidence.
5. Point for determination:-

Whether the accused person on 01-12-2016 at night at
Dakhin Chapra, Jania under the jurisdiction of Barpeta Police Station,
committed house trespass into the house belonging to “X”, aged about 16
3

years, the daughter of informant Ibrahim Ali and committed penetrative

sexual assault on her ?

Discussion, decision and reasons thereof

 

6. The prosecution story, as narrated in the FIR, is that the
accused person, armed with dagger, illegally entered into the house of the
informant and committed rape on the victim.

7. Now let us examine the evidences of the prosecution
witnesses. In this case prosecution has examined as many as 8(eight)
witnesses including the M.O. and 1.0. PW1 Ibrahim Ali is the informant
of this case. According to the FIR lodged by him, the occurrence took
place at night on 01.12.2016. On that night, the victim and her brother
Sanidul Islam were sleeping in the same room in separate beds. While
Sanidul came out from the room for natural call, taking advantage of
opening the door, the accused person armed with dagger entered into the
house and committed rape on her. The said informant as PW1 has
deposed that on 01.12.2016 at about 1:00 O'clock midnight, the accused
person broke the door of the room of the victim by an iron “sabul”. He
went to the bed of the victim armed with a dagger and kept the dagger on
her neck. He asked the victim not to raise hulla, otherwise she would be
killed. The mouth of the victim was tied by a gamucha and thereafter he
committed rape on her. After committing rape, the accused took the
victim on his shoulders to the courtyard. Then the victim removed the
gamucha from her mouth and shouted. Hearing her shouting, he and his
son Sanidul rushed to the accused and then the accused snatched away
the gold chain from the neck of the victim. While the victim resisted the
accused, she was felt down and the accused fled away. He, Sanidul and
the village people chased the accused to his house and informed the
matter to the father of the accused. The father of the accused assured
that he would call a bichar on 03.12.2016, but on 02.12.2016 the parents
4

of the accused person performed his marriage with another girl. At the
time of occurrence, the victim was aged about 15 years 6 months. The
house wherein the victim was sleeping, is consisting of three rooms, one is
for the victim, another is for his son Sanidul and the middle room in
between the victim's room and Sanidul's room is their store room. After
lodging of the FIR, police produced the victim for medical examination and
also for recording her statement u/s 164 CrPC.

In cross examination he has stated that the victim is the
daughter of his first wife Sakina Khatun. He married Sakina about 25 years
ago. After one year of the marriage, the victim was born. While Sakina
committed suicide by taking poison, a case was registered against him.
Now he is living at Lucknow alongwith his third wife Tasiran Nessa. His
elder brother Hamid, Sattar Ali, Naya Mia, Atowar, Manirul and Ajahar Ali
are his neighbours. If any hue and cry takes place in his house, then those
persons must know it. At the time of occurrence the victim was sleeping in
the room alone and his son Sanidul was also sleeping in another room.
The accused knew the room of the victim prior to the occurrence. The
accused entered into the room of the victim by breaking the 'sitkini' of the
door. The victim closed the door by 'sitkini' from inside. Police found the
broken door and 'sitkini' during investigation and police took the 'sitkini’
and the gamocha of the accused. The maxi of the victim was torn. The
Same was shown to the police. But the police did not seize those cloths.
There was only one bed in the room of the victim. He informed about the
occurrence at the police station on the third day. He has denied that he
stated before the I/O that the occurrence took place at about 11:00 PM,
the accused took the victim to the courtyard on his shoulder after
committing rape, Police took the 'sitkini' and the gamocha, he informed
about the occurrence to the father of the accused and the father assured
that a bichar would be held on 03.12.2016, but on 02.12.2016 another girl
was married by the accused. He has further stated that his house is
situated at a distance of % km from the house of the accused person.
5

Mahibul is his nephew-in-law. He has denied that Mohibul made a proposal
before the father of the accused for the marriage of the victim with jthe
accused person, but as the parents of the accused refused the said
proposal, this false case is filed against the accused person.
8. Corroborating the statement of PW1, the victim 'X' as PW2
has deposed that on 01.12.2016 at night the accused person damaged
the door of her room by an iron 'sabul' and came to her bed, armed with
a dagger, and threatened her that if she would shout, then she would be
stabbed. He tied her mouth by a white gamocha and committed rape on
her. Thereafter he took her on his shoulder to the courtyard. She removed
the gamocha from her mouth and shouted and then her brother, father
and the village people rushed to the place of occurrence. While the
accused person tried to flee away, she hold his jacket and then the
accused snatched away her gold chain from her neck. The accused person
fell down her and fled away. Her father, brother and the villagers went to
the house of the accused and the father of the accused assured that he
would call a bichar on 03.12.2016, but on 02.12.2016 the parents of the
accused performed the marriage of the accused with another girl. Then
her father lodged the case at the police station.

In cross examination she has stated that Abdul Hamid,
Abdul Sattar, Ajahar, Manowar, Atowar, Monirul, Naya Mia are her
neighbours and if any occurrence takes place in her house, then those
people must know it. She has admitted that while her mother committed
suicide by consuming poison, then a case was registered against her
father. Besides her mother, her father married another two wives. There
are three rooms in the house wherein she was sleeping. She was sleeping
in the room alone. She slept at about 09:00 PM by closing the door from
inside. The occurrence took place at 1:00 AM. The door of her room and
the 'sitkini' were broken by the accused with an iron 'sabul'. At the time of
commission of rape, the accused torn away her maxi, penty and bra. She
sustained injury on her neck by dagger. Blood was oozing out from the
6

injury and the same was stained on her wearing maxi. Due to commission
of rape, she suffered from bleeding. She could not tolerate the suffering.
So, immediately she was treated by the doctor. On the night of occurrence
police was not informed, but she narrated the matter to the doctor and
doctor informed the matter to the police. The police of the hospital got the
information about the occurrence. Police seized her wearing clothes and
the 'sitkini' of the door during investigation. Relating to the case lodged by
her father, police produced her before the medical officer for examination
and before the magistrate for recording her statement. Police tutored her
what to be stated before the magistrate. She has denied that she had
stated before the I/O that on the night of occurrence she and her brother
Sanidul were sleeping in the same room. While hue and cry took place in
their house, the neighbouring people came and they knew about the
occurrence. She denied that she stated before the police that the
occurrence took place at about 1:00 AM. She has denied that the fact of
injury on her neck by dagger, blood stains on her cloths, bleeding on her
private parts are all false. She has further stated that prior to six months
of the occurrence, the accused persons did not visit their house.

9. The M.O. Dr. Mamata Devi as PW3 has stated that on
03.12.2016, she examined the victim on police requisition. She has stated
that, on examination she found bodily injuries on the person of the victim
as follows-

(1) An abrasion of size 1 Cm x 0.6 Cm over right side of arm 2Cm lateral and
above to right elbow joint and red in colour.

(2) A contusion of size 2 Cm x 1Cm over medial side of right arm,red in colour.
(3) Multiple contusion of size varying from 0.1Cm x 0.1 Cm to 1.2 Cm x 1.2
Cm present over anterior and lateral aspect of left arm,red in colour.

She opined that----- (1) Her age is above 16(sixteen) years and below
18(Eighteen) years. (2) Injuries are detected as described under bodily
injuries. (3) Evidence of recent sexual intercourse is not detected on her
person. (4)Foreign particles like,hair,semen blood etc. are not detected on
her person at the time of examination. In cross examination she has stated
7

that Hymen was found old tear, she did not find any injury in the private
parts. She has further stated that the time of bodily injury and colours are not
mentioned in Ext.3 i.e. her report.

10. One Akkash Ali, who is a neighbour of the informant, as PW4
has deposed that the occurrence took place about 6/7 months ago. One
discussion was held as the accused gave a proposal to marry the victim.
Receiving the summon of this case, he came to know about the filing of
this case against the accused person.

In cross examination he has stated that the informant is
staying at Lucknow alongwith his third wife.

11. One Monowar Hussain who is also a neighbour of the
informant as PW5 has deposed that getting the summons of this case, he
came to know about the filing of the case.

In cross examination, he has stated that on the night of

01.12.2016 he did not hear any sound in the house of the informant
Ibrahim Ali. He heard that on that night informant Ibrahim Ali was at
Lucknow.
12. One Mohamad Ali as PW6 has corroborated that the versions
of PW4 & 5 by saying that after getting the summons of this case, he
came to know about the filing of this case. One day police asked him in
the market about the occurrence. But he replied that he does not know
anything.

In cross examination, he has stated that he is a neighbour of
the informant. On the night of 01.12.2016 no occurrence took place in the
house of Ibrahim Ali. He does not know whether on that day Ibrahim Ali
was at Lucknow or at home.

13. The brother of the victim Sanidul Islam as PW7 has deposed
that on 01.12.2016 at about 1:00 AM he was sleeping in a separate room
and the victim was sleeping in another room. In between their two rooms
their kitchen was there. Breaking the door of the room of the victim, the
accused person entered into her room armed with a dagger. He
8

threatened the victim showing the dagger that if she would make hue and
cry, she would be killed. The mouth of the victim was tied by a gamocha
and she was raped by the accused. Thereafter, the accused took the
victim on his shoulder to the courtyard. While the victim removing the
gamocha started shouting, he, his father and the village people came and
then the accused assaulted the victim on her mouth and snatched away
the gold chain from her neck. They followed the accused to his house and
reported the matter to his parents. They assured that a bichar would be
held on 03.12.2016, but on 02.12.2016 they performed the marriage of
the accused with another girl.

In cross examination he has stated that his father is an
educated person. He knows the date and time of the occurrence. The FIR
was written by police. Neither he nor his father read out the FIR. Police
asked his father to put the signature and accordingly his father put his
signature. His elder sister i.e. the victim was sleeping by closing the door
from inside. The door was made of wood. If the 'sitkini' was not opened,
then nobody can enter into the room of the victim from outside. The door
of their all the rooms are made of wood and if those are broken forcefully,
then they all must hear the sound of it. But prior to the shouting of her
elder sister they did not hear any sound of breaking of the door. He has
denied that he stated before the police that on the night of occurrence, at
about 11:00 PM he and the victim were sleeping in the same room in
separate beds, that at about 11:00 PM he came out from the room for
natural call and had gone to his grand mother's house for some work, that
after some time he rushed to his house hearing the shouting of the victim.
He has further stated that Chandu Mia, Manowar and Mohammad Ali are
his neighbours and if any hue and cry took place, then they must know it.
On the night of occurrence i.e. on 01.12.2016 his father informed the
police about the occurrence over phone. The door and 'sitkini' of the room
of the victim were broken by iron 'sabul'. Police seized those things. He
has admitted that he did not state before the police that on 01.12.2016
9

the accused, armed with dagger, entered into the house of the victim by
breaking the door, tied her mouth with gamocha and committed rape on
her, thereafter, she was taken out by the accused on his shoulder, he
removed the clothes and started shouting, then the accused assaulted her
on her mouth and snatched away the gold chain from her neck, he
alongwith his father and the village people went to the house of the
accused and informed the matter to his parents, they assured that a
bichar waould be held on 03.12.2016 but on 02.12.2016 they performed
the marriage of the accused with another girl. He has denied that no such
occurrence took place on the night of 01.12.2016.

14. The I/O S.I. Babu Singh is examined as PW8. In cross
examination he stated that on the night of occurrence the informant did
not report about the occurrence over telephone. The FIR was lodged on
03.12.2016 at about 12:45 PM. He did not record the statement of the
writer of the FIR. He did not make any enquiry regarding the age of the
victim. He has admitted that according to the FIR the victim and her
brother Sanidul were sleeping in the same room in separate beds. He did
not find that the door and 'Sitkini' of the room of the victim were broken.
The wearing maxi, gamocha, blouse, bra, penty were not shown to him
and he did not seize those articles. Informant Ibrahim Ali told him that the
occurrence took place at about 11:00 PM. Ibrahim Ali did not state before
him that the accused person took the victim to the courtyard on his
shoulder after committing rape, they reported the matter to the father of
the accused, he assured that a bichar would be held on 03.12.2016, but
on 02.12.2016 they performed the marriage of the accused with another
girl. He produced the victim before the medical officer on 03.12.2016. He
did not receive any record regarding the examination of the victim by
medical officer on the night of occurrence. On the night of occurrence,
medical officer did not give any information at the police station after
examining the victim. He did not seize the blood stained clothes from the
bed of the victim. He has further confirmed that witness Sanidul stated
10

before him that on the night of occurrence he and the victim were
sleeping in the same room in different beds and at about 11:00 PM he
came out from the room for natural call and had gone to the house of his
grandmother and after some time hearing the shouting of his sister, he
rushed to his house. He has further stated that though the names of two
other persons were mentioned as accused in the FIR, but he could not
collect any evidence against them.

15. In course of argument, the learned defence counsel has
submitted that though in the FIR as well as in the deposition the informant
has stated that at the time of occurrence the age of the victim was 15 %
years and her date of birth is 23-03-2001, but to substantiate the same,
the prosecution has failed to produce any document. The I/O even failed
to make any investigation in the school, wherein the victim was allegedly
studying at the time of occurrence, to ascertain her age. But from the
cross examination from the informant, it is revealed the mother of the
victim was married by the informant about 25 years ago and the victim
was born after one year of their marriage. Being that situation, the age of
the victim, at the time of occurrence, was about 23/24 years. The learned
defence counsel has further submitted that the allegations which are
narrated in the FIR are totally contradicted by the informant, victim and
her brother. According to the FIR, at the time occurrence, the victim and
her brother Sanidul were sleeping in the same room in separate beds.
Sanidul Islam came out from the room for natural call and taking
advantage of opening door, the accused person entered into the room.
But in their depositions they have stated that the victim and her brother
Sanidul were sleeping in two separate rooms and the victim slept in her
room by closing the door from inside and the accused person entered into
the room by breaking the door and “sitkini” with an iron “sabul”. This
contradictory statement has clarified that the allegations which are
narrated in the FIR are totally false and as no such occurrence took place,
they have contradicted their own versions. In fact, a proposal was made
11

before the parents of the accused to marry the victim, but as the parents
refused the same, this false case is filed against the accused person.

16. After going through the relevant case record, it is found that
the FIR is quite silent regarding the breaking of the door of the room of the
victim. According to the FIR, at the time occurrence the door of the room
of the victim was opened. Though the informant, the victim and her
brother have stated that the door and the “sitkini” were broken by the
accused and those were seen and taken by the police official, but the
police officer PW8 has denied it. He has clearly stated that he did not find
any broken door and “sitkini” and he was not shown any cloths, such as
maxi, gamocha, blouse, bra, penty and he did not seize any article.
Furthermore, according to the informant, he lodged the FIR on 03.12.2016
and the I/O has also confirmed the same, but according to the victim, on
the night of occurrence, as her suffering was intolerable, she was treated
by a medical officer and the medical officer informed the matter to the
police. But the I/O has denied the same and no medical document was
produced before him regarding the medical examination of the victim on
the night of the occurrence. Contradicting all this statements, the brother
of the victim, Sanidul Islam, has stated that on the night of occurrence i.e.
01.12.2016 at night the informant over phone informed the matter to the
police, police came and produced the victim before the medical officer for
examination. The informant, victim and the brother of the victim Sanidul
Islam, are being family members, are the interested persons. But
Surprisingly all the three witnesses, though claimed themselves as
present at a time of occurrence, have contradicted each other. So, without
any corroboration evidence their evidences can not relied upon. There are
three other independent witnesses who are examined as PW4,5 & 6. All
are neighbours of the informant. The informant, victim and her brother
have admitted that if any occurrence such as shouting takes place in their
house, then obviously those persons much hear it. But all the three
witnesses have categorically stated that on the night of occurrence they
12

did not hear about any occurrence or sound in the house of the informant
and they only came to know above the filing of the case after receiving
the summons as witnesses from the court. Furthermore, according to the
informant, the accused person fell down the victim and fled away, the
victim also corroborated the same. She has further stated that she
sustained injury on her neck by the dagger of the accused, blood was
oozing from that injury. According to Sanidul, the accused person
assaulted the victim on her mouth. But the medical officer, who examined
the victim on 03.12.2016, did not find any injury either on the mouth or in
the neck of the victim. She only found abrasion and contusion on the arm
of the victim, but she did not mention the age of those injuries. She did
not find any evidence of recent sexual intercourse on the person of the
victim. Therefore, it could not be ascertained how and when those bodily
injuries occurred on the person of the victim. Furthermore, according to
Sanidul Islam, the FIR was written by police, Police asked his father to put
his signature and accordingly his father i.e. the informant put his
signature. But neither he nor his father read out the same. But the Ext.1
i.e. the FIR does not support the same. The FIR reveals that the same was
written by advocate Rubi Das.

17. From the above discussions of the evidences of the
prosecution witnesses, it is found that regarding the allegations of
commission of rape, the medical evidence is negative. The prosecution
has failed to produce trustworthy and reliable evidence regarding the
commission of sexual intercourse by the accused person with the victim.
None of the independent witnesses have supported the prosecution case.
Without corroboration, only on the basis of testimony of the victim an
accused can not be punished for an offence of commission of rape if her
testimony are not found trustworthy. But in this case in hand, neither the
victim nor her father and brother are found trustworthy. Their evidences
can not be relied upon as the same are not corroborated by any other

witnesses. Hence, on the basis of such unreliable evidence, no one can be
13

held guilty for any offence.

18. In view of the above discussions of the evidences of the
prosecution witnesses, it is found that prosecution has failed to establish
beyond all reasonable doubt that the accused person entered into the
house of the informant illegally and committed rape on the victim.

19. Under the above facts and circumstances, it is clear that
prosecution has miserably failed to bring home the guilt of the accused
either under section 448 I.PB.C or under section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.
Therefore the accused person is acquitted and set at liberty.

20. Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety are
extended for another period of six months from the date of this judgment
under section 437-A Cr.P.C.

21. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section 365
Cr.P.C.

22. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 26th day
of June, 2018.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-

(Smti. C. R. Goswami) (Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta.
14

APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 = Ibrahim Ali,

P.W.2 = Elima Ahmed, the victim,
P.W.3 = Dr. Mamata Devi,

P.W.4 = Akkash Ali.

P.W.5 = Monowar Hussain,

P.W.6 = Mahammad Ali ,

P.W.7 = Sanidul Islam,

P.W.8 = Sri Babu Singh, S.I. of Police.

(B) Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1 = FIR,
Ext.1(1),1(2)1(3)&1(4) |§ = Signature of Ibrahim Ali,

Ext.2 = Statement u/s 164 CrPC,
Ex.2(1),Ext.2(2) = Signature of Elima Ahmed,
Ext.3 = Medical Report,

Ext.3(1) = Signature of Dr. Mamata Devi,
Ext.4 = Charge sheet,

Ex.4(1) = Signature of S.I. Babu Singh,
Ext.5 = Sketch map,

Ext.5(1) = Signature of S.I. Babu Singh,

(C) Defence witnesses:Nil.
(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.
(E) Court witnesses:Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil.
Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
