IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE :::::; BONGAIGAON

Special (P) Case No. 10(BGN)/2017.
U/S 6 of POCSO Act.

(Arising out of Bongaigaon P.S Case No. 463/2017)

State of Assam
Vs.

Sri Anil Barman ....Accused.

 

PRESENT :- Smti. I. Barman,
Special Judge (under POCSO Act),

Bongaigaon.

Appearance :-.

For the State : Sri R. Barman Public Prosecutor.

For the accused: Sri K.Chakraborty, Legal aid counsel.

Date of Argument: 12.03.2018, 26.3.2018.
Date of Judgment : 27.03.2018.

% JUDGMENT AND ORDER
Y, y 1. The factual matrix of the prosecution case, in short,
~ # yoSs is that on 11.06.2017 at about 11.00 AM, when the informant's (PW 5) 5
spe years old daughter went to her paternal uncle's (PW 2's) house, accused

Anil Barman, who was working as mason in the house of PW 2, lured

the victim by giving chocolate and sexually assaulted her.

Contd...
(2)
2. FIR on the incident was lodged on 22.06.2017 by
the mother of the victim (PW 5) before the O/C, Bongaigaon Police
station. On receipt of the FIR, the O/C, Bongaigaon Police Station,
registered a case being Bongaigaon Police Station Case No. 463/2017
under section 4 of POCSO Act and entrusted S.I. Khirode Dey to
investigate the case. Accordingly, the Investigating Officer visited the
place of occurrence, recorded the statement of the witnesses, got the
statement of the victim recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C, sent her for medical
examination, arrested the accused and on completion of investigation,

laid charge-sheet against the accused Anil Barman under section 4 of

POCSO Act.

3, On perusing police report and hearing both sides,
| \, having found a prima facie case, charge under section 6 of POCSO Act
'} was framed against the accused. The accused pleaded innocence when

, charge was read over and explained to him and claimed for trial.

 

Points for determination:-
Whether on 11.6.2017, at village Deoripara under
Bongaigaon police station, accused Anil Barman

committed aggravated penetrative sexual assault on

& the victim and thereby committed an offence
yn a punishable under section 6 of POCSO Act ?
a qodge-
Progaig2o™ 4. In this case, to bring home the charge against the

accused, prosecution has examined as many as 11 witnesses. Statement

of the accused was recorded U/S 313 Cr.P.C in which, he denied all the

allegations levelled against him and pleaded that since 7.6.2017 till
Contd...
 

(3) |
11.6.2017 he worked in the house of advocate's clerk 'Medhi' and prior
to that only, he worked in the house of PW 2, the paternal uncle of the
victim. He pleaded that during the period, he worked in the house of PW
2, the victim's mother asked him not to work in the house of PW 2
otherwise threatened to implicate him in bad case for which thereafter
from 7.6.2017 to 11.6.2017 he worked in the house of Medhi and then
this case was filed falsely against him. Defence examined none to prove

his plea.

Discussion, decision and reasons there of:-

 

: is Mr R. Barman, the learned Public Prosecutor

Jf strenuously argued that the materials on record undoubtedly project a

case of sexual harassment on minor girl. He further submitted that the

evidence of the victim child is enough to convict the accused person.

6. Controverting the said argument, Mr K.
Chakraborty, the learned legal aid counsel appearing for the accused
person, submitted that the delay in lodging the FIR coupled with not
being supported the case by medical evidence create doubts on
prosecution case. He also submitted that the victim's mother wanted to
oust the accused from working in the house of her brother-in-law (PW 2)

and hence he has been falsely implicated in the case.

7. In view of the rival submission advanced by the
learned counsels appearing for the parties, let us go through the entire

evidence on record.
 

yudZe-
creat
rem

(4)
8. PW | is the victim herself. She deposed that on the
day of incident when she went to her father's elder brother's (PW 2)
house ( whom she called as Dadago), then accused Anil Barman laid her
upon the floor and by removing her jangia, put his penis upon her vagina
and inserted it to a little extent, at which she raised alarm on feeling pain.
Thereafter, she returned home. She further deposed that the accused
person made her laid upon the ground and committed wrong acts with
her. She stated that at the time of incident, her uncle (Dadago) was
preparing mortar outside his house and her aunty was also within house.
During cross she stated that at the time of incident, the accused was
working in the house of her uncle (Dadago). She denied the suggestion
that the fact of inserting the penis by the accused into her vagina was not

stated before police.

9. PW 2 is the elder brother of the victim's father in
whose house the alleged incident occurred. He deposed that at the time
of incident the accused was working in his house as mason and he helped
him as labour. He stated that one day the villagers handed over the
accused to police and then only he came to know that accused Anil
Barman put his penis in the vagina of the victim girl inside his newly
constructed house when he had gone to the shop for purchasing
construction materials. During cross he denied the suggestion that in
connection with land and construction of his house, he had dispute with
mother of the victim. However, he admitted that sometimes they had
some petty quarrels. He further deposed that the accused told him that
his age is 70 years. He stated that until police had taken the accused,

neither the victim nor her mother informed him about the incident.

Contd...
 

(5)
10. PW 3 is the wife of PW 2. She deposed that on the
day of incident she went to bank and from her neighbour, she heard that
accused Anil Barman attempted to commit something to the victim.
During cross she admitted having petty quarrel with the victim's family
with regard to some domestic matter. She also stated that neither the

victim nor her mother reported her about the incident.

11. PW 4 Leena Singha, the president of Bongaigaon
Zila Parishad, stated that on 19.6.2017, the mother of the victim, at
around 5 P.M came to her house and reported that on 11.6.2017 accused
Anil Barman, who was working in PW 2's house as mason, had
committed sexual intercourse to her 5 years old daughter. Then on being
asked, the victim was found to be unwell. Hence she asked the victim
affectionately as to whether anything had been done to her, to which the
victim girl, by removing her pant, had shown that accused Anil Barman
put his penis in her vagina forcefully as a result of which she felt pain
and had been suffering while urinating. Hearing the incident, on next
day, she called a meeting and as per decision of the meeting, F.I.R was
lodged and accused was handed over to police. During cross she stated
that on asking the victim's mother as to why she reported the incident so
late, the informant told her that at first they thought that for some other
reason her daughter might have felt burning in her private part and
accordingly they got her treated by a doctor. Though she denied the
Suggestion that the fact of reporting by the victim and her mother
regarding sexual intercourse was not stated before police but she clarified

that she had stated before police that the victim reported to her that

Contd....
(6)
the accused by removing her pant explained the bad act committed on

her by the accused person .

12. PW 5 is the mother of the victim. She deposed that
on 11.6.2017 at around 11 A.M while she was at home, her victim
daughter came to her weeping and told her that accused Anil Barman

made her laid upon the floor of the newly constructed house of PW 2,

  

removed her pant and put his penis in her vagina forcefully causing

swelling in her private part. After that, PW 6 the paternal aunty of the

 

Ns ona a
victim came there and both of them noticed swelling in the private part of
the victim. Then when they asked the accused, about the act committed
by him, the accused kept mum and glared at the mother. Thereafter, they
took the victim to doctor of Chaprakata wherefrom again she was taken
to civil hospital, but she did not get well and felt burning while urinating.
After that, there was 3 days AAKRSU bandh and when the bandh was
over, they had taken the victim to civil hospital but she did not get cured
and due to financial constraint, she was unable to get better treatment.
Hence she informed the matter to villagers to which the villagers got the
victim girl treated in Lower Assam hospital and she filed the FIR, Ext 1.

Police also seized the birth certificate of the victim vide Ext 2. During

S cross she stated that the accused was working in the house of PW 2 for

\ yy about 20/25 days and PW 2 helped him in his work. She stated that in
/- ae the house of PW 2, he and his wife resided and on the day of incident
sree PW 2 worked in other place and returned at 4.00 PM. On that day the

wife of PW 2 went to market and returned at 3 PM and the accused

worked alone. She further stated that on the day of incident the accused

worked whole day in the house of PW 2 and thereafter, for several days
Contd...
(7)
he worked there. PW 5 noticed the victim girl at 11 A.M but immediately
she did not take her to hospital.

18, PW 6 is the aunty of the victim. She deposed that
her house is just on the backside of the house of PW 2 where the alleged
incident occurred. According to this witness, on the day of incident, after
returning home, through window, she saw that accused Anil Barman
making the victim laid upon floor of the newly constructed house of PW
2, inserted his penis in the vagina of the victim and seeing her, the
accused got shocked and lifting the victim from the floor, pretended to
be swining her. Then she reported the incident to the mother of the

victim and after 2 days the victim told that accused put his penis in her

 

vagina. She also stated that the accused lured the victim by giving
chocolate and asked her not to raise alarm. She stated that due to the
incident, the victim felt burning in urinating and had taken treatment at
Chaparakata, Bongaigaon civil hospital and Lower Assam hospital.
During cross she denied the suggestion that the fact of witnessing the

incident was not reported to police.

14. PW 7 Renuka Ray deposed that she heard that on

q 11.6.2017 accused Anil Barman committed sexual intercourse to the

q. an victim girl and later on, the incident was informed to their Mahila

Om:
l age Samitee by the mother of the victim. She stated that on 22.6.2017 police
JucEeYs
spect aon. seized the birth certificate of the victim in presence of her vide seizure
ponslé

list Ext 2.

15. PW 8 Dr. Hafiza Ahmed examined the victim on

22.6.2017 and found as follows:
Contd....
(8)
Conscious and oriented. Vitals — Normal.
Dentition _ 5 |5_

5|5
Secondary sex characters not developed.

Local examination:

 

 

No redness, swelling or tenderness over vulva. No
semen stain found. No injury over any part of body. Hymen ~ Intact.

Vaginal smear - No Spermatozoa seen.

Investigation:

Clinically her age appears to be 5 years.

She opined that from the history and examination, it
could not be ascertained if she was raped or not. She proved the medical
report as Ext.3. During cross she stated that the victim stated history of

assault by Anil Barman but she did not find any injury on her person.

16. PW 9, the maternal uncle of the victim, deposed that
on 11.6.2017 his sister (PW 5) alongwith the victim girl came to his
house and said that the victim felt burning in her private part while
urinating. Then he sent the victim with his brother to doctor, but as it
was a Sunday, hence on next day i.e on 12.6.2017 his brother took the

victim to Chaprakata civil hospital. But doctor referred the victim to

a Bongaigaon civil hospital. Then on being enquired the victim's mother,

fig as to what happened actually, she told him that 3 / 4 days ago, the
specie" sudes. accused who was working in the house of PW 2 as mason, committed
poosseo™ rape on her. On 13.6.2017, there was bandh called by AAKRSU and

only in the afternoon they came to know that bandh was withdrawn.

Hence on 14.06.2017 they took the victim to Bongaigaon civil hospital
(9)
and on narrating the incident, doctor asked as to whether any case was
lodged or not. Then he informed the incident to the villagers of the
informant and thereafter his sister filed the case. During cross, he stated
that though the victim had not cried when she came to his house but she
felt pain. He further stated that after knowing about the incident, at first
he informed the villagers and thereafter asked his sister to file the case.
He denied the suggestion that seeing construction of new house of the

victim's paternal uncle, her mother lodged the case falsely, out of grudge.

17. PW 10, SI, Khirod Dey is the Investigating Officer.
He deposed that on receipt of an FIR from the informant on 22.6.2017,
he was entrusted to investigate the case and accordingly he visited the

place of occurrence, prepared the sketch map of the place of the

 

occurrence, Ext 5, recorded the statement of the witnesses, sent the
victim for medical examination, got her statement recorded U/S 164
Cr.P.C, arrested the accused and at the close of investigation submitted
charge sheet against the accused U/S 6 of POCSO Act vide Ext.7. He
also seized the birth certificate of the victim vide Ext 2. During cross, he
stated that the cause of delay in filing the F.].R was mentioned in the
F.I.R as non disclosure of the incident by the victim girl. He stated that

as per version of the accused, he mentioned the age of the accused as 58

\% years in the forwarding letter. He also stated that though the victim's
Y a mother told that the victim was treated by private doctor at Lower Assam
+ gi ze: hospital but no document was collected by him in that respect.
Bee enig0
18. PW 11 Binod Ch Ray, the then Bench Assistant of

the Court of the learned SDJM(S), Bonogaigaon deposed that on
23.06.2017 the victim girl was produced before the Court for recording
Contd...
 

(10)
her statement U/S 164 CrP.C and accordingly the learned SDJM(S),
Bongaigaon Smti S. Handique recorded her statement vide Ext 6 wherein
the victim put her thumb impression which was taken by him. He proved
the same as Ext 6(1) to Ext 6(5). He also proved the signature of the then
learned SDJM(S), Bongaigaon, Smti S. Handique as Ext 6(6). During
cross he stated that the victim was produced in the Court by woman
police and the statement was recorded in the chamber of the officer.

After recording statement, he took the thumb impressions of the victim.

19, In the case the evidence of the PWs is that at the

| time of incident, the victim was 5 years old. As per medical evidence

(PW 8) also, the victim appears to be 5 years of age. Age of the victim
is not in dispute. As such, J unhesitantly hold that the victim is a child

below the age of 12 years at the time of incident.

20. Now the question is whether the accused Anil

Barman committed an offence.

21. The evidence of the victim (PW 1) reveals that at the
time of incident, accused Anil Barman whom she called “Dodo” was
working in the house of her paternal uncle (PW 2). She stated that on the
day of incident when she went to the house of her paternal uncle (PW 2),
the accused made her laid upon the floor and had put his penis in her
vagina and inserted it to a little extent. At that moment, on feeling pain,
she raised alarm. After returning home, she reported the incident to her
mother. PW 5 the mother of the victim, the most natural witness, stated
that on 11.6.2017 at around 11.00 A.M her victim daughter by crying told
Contd....
(11)
her that the accused made laid her upon the floor of the newly
constructed house of PW 2 and put his penis in her vagina by force. As a
result, there was swelling in the private pate of the victim due to which
she felt burning and pain in her private part. PW 6 the paternal aunt of
the victim claimed that she, through the window of newly constructed
house of PW 2 witnessed the accused inserting his penis in the vagina of
the victim upon floor. But seeing her, the accused lifted the victim and
pretended to be swinging her and then she reported the incident to the
4, Victim's mother. Though PW 5, the victim's mother, had not corroborated
‘\ that PW 6 reported what she had seen but PW 5 stated that after the
| fi \ incident, PW 6 came to her house and then both of them had noticed
) swelling on the private part of the victim. Victim in her statement U/S

164 Cr.P.C, (Ext 6), also stated that her paternal aunt also had seen

 

swelling in her private part. PW 9, the maternal uncle of the victim,
stated that victim's mother reported him about commission of sexual
intercourse on the victim by the accused. PW 4, the President of
Bongaigaon Zila Parishad as well as president of woman organization,
also stated that on 19.6.2017 the victim's mother came to her house with
her victim child and the victim, by removing her pant, had shown that

accused put his penis in her vagina. PW 5 the victim's mother and PW 4

NG the independent witnesses categorically stated that the victim told that

Q). wy the accused person, by making the victim laid upon ground, removed her

J a pant and put his penis in her vagina with force as a result of which she

Specie suds. felt pain in her private part. Though in deposition the victim stated that
Bongsign® the accused inserted his penis in her vagina to a little extent but in

statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C and in statement U/S 161 Cr.P.C recorded

immediately after lodging the FIR, i.e after 11/12 days of the incident,
Contd...
 

ad wdge.

Bon gaig2o®

(12)
she stated that the accused put his penis in her vagina resulting swelling

in her private part.

22. Further, although the victim's mother stated that
after the incident, the victim was treated by private doctor and at Lower
Assam hospital, but it was not proved by prosecution by any document.
On the other hand, the medical evidence (Ext 3) shows no redness,
swelling or tenderness over vulva. The alleged incident occurred on
11.6.2017 and the victim was examined at Bongaigaon civil hospital on

22.6.2017 i.e. after 11 days. So there is no possibility of finding any

) injury. The statement of the victim for the first time at stage of evidence

that the accused inserted his penis in her vagina to a little extent, was not
corroborated by other PWs. Her mother is the most natural witness to
whom she reported the incident immediately after the occurrence. Even
according to deposition of the mother, the victim reported her that the
accused put his penis in her vagina but not stated about slightest
penetration. A girl of 5 years old, can hardly say what amounts to
penetration. If a matured man of 60/65 years, rubs his penis upon vagina
of a 5 years old girl, possibility of swelling on private part or feeling
pain as complained by the victim cannot be ruled out. Though PW 6
Stated that through window, she had seen the accused penetrating his
penis in the vagina of the victim and reported it to victim's mother, but
victim's mother stated that on the day of incident PW 6 was in her own
house and she came to her (PW S's) house at 3.00 PM. On the other
hand, victim returned home at 11.00 A.M and reported the incident to her
mother. PW 5 stated that after she saw swelling in private part of the
victim, PW6 came there and both of them saw the swelling. So, the
Contd....
 

(13)
evidence of PW 5, the victim's mother does not support that PW 6 had
seen the incident. The evidence of PW 6 about seeing the incident
appears to be exaggerated. PW 2, the paternal uncle of the Victim, in
Whose newly constructed house the alleged incident took place, also
heard that accused forcibly put his penis in the vagina of the victim
within his house and at that time he was not present. PW 3, the wife of
PW 2, also stated that her neighbour told the accused attempted to do
something to the victim and at that time she had gone to the market. So,
though the victim stated that at the time of incident PW 2 was preparing
mortar outside of his house and PW 3 was at home, but PW 2 and PW 3
themselves stated that at that time they were not at home. However in
Statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C, the victim stated that at the time of incident,
nobody was present in the house of PW 2. Being an infant child of 5
years, she might not remember everything all but her evidence coupled
with evidence of other PWs particularly the evidence of mother firmly

established that the accused put his penis in her private part.

23. Taking the plea of enmity though the learned
counsel of defence argued that regarding paternal property, the victim's
mother had dispute with PW 2 and hence this case was filed falsely so
that she can stop the accused from working in construction of his house,
but it is quite unbelievable that a mother for her own jealousness would
set up her minor daughter with a false allegation of sexual assault against
an innocent who was engaged as a mason for construction of enemy's
(PW 2) house. A mother or father cannot put reputation, prestige and
dignity of her/his daughter at stake for such family dispute by levelling
false charge against an innocent.

Contd...
(14)
24. The learned defence counsel pointed out some
discrepancies, in the deposition of PWs but in My opinion such
discrepancies do not Wipe out the other reliable part of the evidence and
the victim can not said to be inconsistent on the main allegation of sexual
assault. It is well settled that differences in minor details, which do not
otherwise affect the core of the prosecution case, even if present, that
itself would not prompt the Court to reject the evidence on minor
variation or discrepancies. The evidence of the victim regarding sexual

assault is found spontaneous, firm and trustworthy. The evidence of other

  
 
  
 

PWs, particularly the mother of the victim, is corroborative in value.

5. Further though in statement U/S 313 Cr.P.C the
accused taking the plea of alibi stated that he had worked in the house of
the advocate's clerk 'Medhi' from 7.6.2017 till 11.6.2017 and had not
worked in the house of PW 2 on the day of alleged incident, but said
Medhi was not examined by defence. On the other hand, PW 2 and PW 3
the couple who had family dispute with victim's mother Clearly stated
that at the time of incident the accused worked as mason in their newly
constructed house. There is nothing at all to doubt their deposition in any

manner. Therefore, the accused failed to establish his plea. Though the

& accused claims his age as to be 70 years, but in the forwarding report his
| - YI age is mentioned as 58 years. Defence did not produce any document
fo regarding age of the accused. The accused, being a person of 60/65 years,
Soeci# mdse. was supposed to protect the victim, who is of his grand daughter's age,

Gigheaien0®

from abuse of her childhood, but instead he himself abused her childhood

and sexually assaulted her.

26. In this case there is delay of 11 days in filing the
Contd....
 

(15)

FILR. In this report, the victim's mother, the informant, stated in
evidence that at first she took the victim to doctor of Chaprakata and then
to civil hospital. Moreover, in the midst there was AAKRSU bandh for
three days and at civil hospital, doctor asked to take better treatment and
then due to financial constraint, she informed the matter to villagers who
helped to take treatment at Lower Assam hospital and thereafter, she
lodged the F.I.R. So due to financial constraint, she may not think about
filing a case and later on when she had to take help of others, she filed
the case. In this respect the Apex Court in Md Ali vs State of Uttar
Pradesh reported in (2015) 7 SCC 272, had been held as follows :

" It is opt to mention here that in rape cases the delay
in filing the FIR by the prosecutrix or by the parents in all
circumstances is not of significance. The authorities of this count have
granted adequate protection/allowance in that aspect regard being had to
the trauma suffered, the agony and anguish that creates the turbulence in
the mind of the victim, to muster the courage to expose oneself in a
conservative social milieu. Sometimes the fear of social stigma and
occasions the availability of medical treatment to gain normalcy and
above all the psychological inner strength to undertake such a legal

battle."

2d. In the instant case, the victim, being a girl of 5
(five) years, who may not know what happened to her and also
considering the facts and circumstances, particularly that of financial
hardship as discussed above, and considering the law laid down on the

issue, the delay in lodging the ejahar is not fatal to the prosecution.

28. Situated thus, the conclusion which is irresistible is
(16)
that the prosecution has proved beyond all reasonable doubt that accused
Anil Barman, on 11.6.2017, while he was working in newly constructed
house of PW 2 as a mason, laid the victim on the floor and by removing
her pant put his penis upon her vagina and thereby committed the offence
of sexual assault. Considering the evidence available on record as
discussed above, I am of the opinion that although the evidences adduced
by the prosecution do not establish the charge of penetrative sexual
assault but prosecution proved beyond reasonable doubt that accused
committed sexual assault on the child victim. The victim child being 5
years old, i.e. below 12 years, the act committed by the accused would
fall within the ambit of section 9 (m) of the Act, i.e of causing aggravated
=“ sexual assault of 5 years old child punishable under section 10 of
« |POCSO Act and not an offence of penetrative aggravated sexual assault
U/S 6 of POCSO Act. Considering all, accused Anil Barman is held
guilty for the offence punishable U/S 10 of POCSO Act and is convicted

accordingly.

 

29. I have heard accused Anil Barman on the point of
sentence. The accused/convict has stated that he is to look after his wife

and two sons and therefore prayed for taking a lenient view. On the other

: — hand, the learned Public Prosecutor submitted that the crime being
y ~~ heinous, the accused should not be dealt with leniency.
fy
jwd8e
8 = BOO 30. I gave my anxious consideration on the aspect of
Base”

quantum of sentence. Section 10 of POCSO Act provides punishment

for a term which shall not be less than 5(five) years but which may

extend to 7 (seven) years and shall also be liable to fine.

31. In Madan Gopal Kakkad V. Naval Dubey and Anr.
Contd...
or A TRE Ly oy
if & cote ei, my

2

re
Br gs le ™

if vy Oe , %
af ® Y s o
4il. ied coe
| | £ . o
\ : s , ‘ ;
1 ah * j
i te ty /
“oa J
“ Irigy a ga" * a
z i al
0m
yx
aw yr
Spe ge a0h*
hae

(17)

(1992) 3 SCC 204, it has been observed as follows :

ind weenaamnemaneneenee though all sexual assaults on female
children are not reported and do not come to light yet there is an
alarming and shocking increase of sexual offences committed on
children. This is due to the reasons that children are ignorant of the act of
tape and are not able to offer resistance and become easy prey for lusty
brutes who display the unscrupulous, deceitful and insidious art of luring
female children and young girls. Therefore, such offenders who are

menace to the civilized society should be mercilessly and inexorably

punished in the severest terms".

32. In State of Karnataka V. Krishnappa (2000) 4 SCC
75, the Apex Court opined that " the Court must hear the loud cry for

\ justice by the society in cases of the heinous crime of rape on innocent

helpless girls of tender years and respond by imposition of proper
sentence. Public abhorrence of the crime needs reflection through
imposition of appropriate sentence by the Court. It was further observed
that to show mercy in the case of such a heinous crime would be travesty
of justice and the plea for leniency is wholly misplaced."

33. In the instant case, the 5 years old girl, was supposed
to spend time in cheerfulness. No sexual character is developed on the
victim. It is quite natural that the prosecutrix understands nothing about
sex or what the accused was doing with her. The act of the accused is
nothing but cruel satisfaction of lust. It is reflection of the gruesome
criminality in the mind of the accused person that he did not spare a little

girl who was of the age of his grand daughter from his lust in pursuit of

Contd....
(18)
his sexual pleasure. She has been traumatized due to such incident which
occurred to her at a very tender age. He committed a serious offence
against a minor and, therefore, in my considered view he does not

deserve a lenient consideration.

34, Considering all aspects, I sentence the convict Anil
Barman to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 7 (seven) years and also to
pay fine of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees ten thousand), in default to undergo
rigorous imprisonment for another 6(six) moths for the offence
punishable U/S 10 of POCSO Act. The fine amount on realization be
paid to the victim. The period of detention already undergone by the
accused shall be set off.

35. Convict/accused Anil Barman be sent to District Jail,

Abhayapuri to serve the sentence.

36. Let a free copy of the judgment be furnished to the
convict.
37. Also send a copy of the judgment to the District

Magistrate, Bongaigaon as per provision of section 365 Cr.P.C.

38. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this

27" day of March, 2018.

‘4 \§

x Lyx aD
(I. Barman)
Special Judge
Bongaigaon.
| oat axe
Dietated and i by me, Bongsigaon-
¥)-
Ya”
(I. Barman)
Special Judge,
Bon
¢ er inees Contd...

se ygagnere™
(19)
APPENDIX

Prosecution witness:

PW 1 — Victim

PW 2 — Parental uncle of the victim.

PW 3 — Wife of PW 2.

PW 4 — Leena Singha.

PW 5 — Mother of PW 1.

PW 6 — Paternal aunt of the victim.

PW 7 — Renuka Ray.

PW 8 - Dr Hafiza Ahmed Medical officer).
PW 9- Brother of the victim.

PW 10 — Khirod Dey, I.0.

PW 11- Binod Ch Ray, Bench Asstt. to learned. SDJM(S), Bongaigaon.

Defence Witness:
Nil.

Documents Exhibited by Prosecution:
Ext-1 FLLR.

Ext-2 Seizure list.

Ext-3 Medical report.

Ext-4 Vaginal smear examination report.
Ext-5 Sketch map of the place of occurrence.
Ext 6 Statement of the victim

Ext 7 Charge sheet.

Material Exhibited by prosecution:
M. Ext | — Birth certificate.

   

 
  

Defence Exhibit: ae
Nil. ay
a ~ Joa
QRETICE ip,
oo oN (1. Barman )
~ Special Judge,

pengaig20m
