Page 1 of 4

Spl. POCSO Case No. 11/2018
IN THE COURT OF ADDITIONAL SESSIONS JUDGE, FTC, BISWANATH CHARIALI

SONITPUR, ASSAM

Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 11/2018
u/s 4 of POCSO Act,2012

 

 

State of Assam
-VS-
Md. Wahidur Rahman

benees Accused person

Present: Sri Dipankar Bora, MA, LL.M., AJS,
Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,

Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur.

eC Committed by:
ae ag Learned SDJM(M), Biswanath Chariali

t i sg ae ie Advocates Appeared:-
\: oo nea | As For the prosecution: Ms. J. Kalita, learned Addl. P.P

Lira For the defence __: Mr. P. Hazarika, learned Advocate

Dates of recording Evidence:29.05.2019, 03.07.2019.

Date of Argument : 03.07.2019.
Date of Judgment : 03.07.2019.
JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 08.04.2018 the informant namely, Sri Kishore Mijar

a lodged an FIR with the OC, Behali PS stating inter alia that on the same day at about 10

ny a AM, his 14-year-old daughter (name is withheld) was kidnapped by the accused on a

ot ee vehicle when she was on her way to Borgang Bazar. Later, when the accused tried to

ee molest his daughter at New Line of Monabari Tea Estate under Gingia PS, the local public
Oo apprehended them and handed them to Gingia PS.

2. Receiving the same, the police registered a case and investigated the matter. After
investigation the police submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 366(A) IPC r/w
Section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012.

3. The accused in due course appeared before this court, wherein the copies of the relevant
documents were furnished to him. Taking note of the materials furnished u/s 173 CrPC and
upon hearirig both the sides on the point of charge, as this court found grounds for
presuming that the accused had committed an offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act, 2012, the
Page 2 of 4

Spl. POCSO Case No. 11/2018
charge was accordingly framed against him, which on being read over and explained, he

pleaded not guilty.

4. During trial, the prosecution examined the informant/father of the victim as PW 1, the
mother of the victim as PW 2 and the victim as PW 3. Looking into the evidence as
adduced by all these vital witnesses, more particularly, the evidence of the victim- PW 3;
the prosecution declined to examine the remaining witnesses contending that further
evidence would not strengthen its case. As no incriminating evidence was found against
the accused from the evidence of all these vital witnesses, the prosecution evidence was
closed and the examination of the accused u/s 313 CrPC was dispensed with. The case was

__ thereafter argued by both the sides.

| Points for determination
, Whether the accused on the day of the alleged occurrence committed penetrative

uo sexual assault on the said victim?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof
5. PW 1 is the father of the victim and the informant. He stated that the incident took place
about 6 months back. According to him, his daughter was 20 years old at that relevant
time. He stated that his daughter was taken away by the accused from the road when she
was on her way to school. Herein he contradicts his FIR, wherein he stated that the victim
was abducted from the way to Bargang bazar. He goes on to depose that later, when the
accused and his daughter went towards Borbil Tea Estate, some people caught them and
handed them over to police. The police informed his employer over phone and he then
came to police station after receiving the news. He brought back his daughter from police
station to his house and later he was told by his daughter had that the accused had did

‘beya kam’ with her. He further stated that his daughter has now been married at

b [wt Guwahati. He in his cross examination stated that he lodged the FIR on being tutored by
apy the villagers. He has no idea about the occurrence. He again stated that he lodged the
Las il fase out of misunderstanding.
al. 208 "6. PW 2 Smti Chitra Mijar stated that the incident took place in the year 2017-18. According
“ee to her, police from Gingia PS had recovered her daughter and after getting the said news,

ay
2

her husband- PW 1 went to the police station. Later, when she asked her daughter, she did
not tell her anything about the incident. She further stated that her daughter has now
been married away. In her cross-examination, she stated that her husband lodged the FIR
out of misunderstanding and she does not know the accused.

7. PW 3 is the alleged victim. She stated that the accused used to work near their house and
at that relevant time she was not married. She stated that one day, her father had seen
her talking with the accused and he out of misunderstanding lodged the FIR against the
Page 3 of 4

Spl. POCSO Case No. 11/2018
accused. She proved her statement recorded u/s 164 CrPC as Ext. 1 but testified that

what she had stated then was in the manner in what she was asked to state by the
villagers. She stated that the accused is innocent.

8. Thus from the evidence of all these vital witnesses, more particularly, from the evidence of
PW 3, we do not find any evidence against the accused person to convict him on the
offence charged against him. The prosecution has failed to prove its case. As such I acquit
the accused person from the offence charged against him and set him at liberty forthwith.
The provision of Sec. 437-A CrPC is not complied with after taking note of the evidence on

eI G fecord. A copy of the judgment be forwarded to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur in

Sieg ee OS compliance with the sec. 365 Cr.P.C. The case is disposed of. :

vO Given under my hand and seal of this court on this the 3rd day of July, 2019.

fete Hera
SE (0. BORA)

Additional Sessions Judge, FTC,
Biswanath Chariali, Sonitpur, Assam.

Add, Sessions suoge

PY slg ct | Rag ghee
BiSwoildai sence ah, DG
Page 4 of 4
Spl. POCSO Case No. 11/2018

 

ANNEXURE
Witnesses examined by the Prosecution: fey “
PW1- Sri Kishore Mijar a
PW2- Smti Chitra Mijar EA SNITBOR Lo
PW3- Victim Se aN

Exhibits proved by the prosecution witnesses:
Ext.1- Statement of the victim u/s 164 CrPC

Witnesses examined by the Defence:
None.

Documents exhibited by the Defence:

None.
