IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, NAGAON ::: ASSAM.

Special (POCSO) Case No.-65/2018
U/S-366 I.P.C, r/w Section-5 of the POCSO Act.

State
- Versus -

Sri Ajoy Satnami
: Accused person.

Present :
Md. A. Rahman, AJS
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Sri M.J. Neog, Ld. Special Prosecutor.
For the accused person : Md. A. Rahman, Ld. Advocate.
Charge framed on : 10/08/2018.
Evidence recorded on : 03/01/2019.
Date of Argument : 05/02/2019.
Date of Judgment : 05/02/2019.

Contd...
UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on Smti. Anita
Rajbongshi (actual name withheld) of Village- Majgaon lodged a written
Ejahar on 16/05/2018 with the O/C of Jakhalabandha Police Station
alleging that about two months back while her daughter ‘Miss. X'
(name withheld for the sake of anonymity) went to get her examination
result from the school, accused Ajoy Satnami forcibly kidnapped her
and took her to far distant places and kept her confined. Taking
advantage of absence of the complainant, her victim daughter made a
telephonic call to her that the accused subjected her to physical and
mental torture and tried to kill her by administering insecticide poison.
The efforts made by the complainant along with her neighbours to

recover her victim daughter went in vain. Hence this case.

2. On the basis of the written Ejahar, Jakhalabandha PS. Case
No.-64/2018 was registered u/s-366(A)/307 IPC. ASI Mridul Debnath
was entrusted to investigate the case and the criminal investigation

was put to motion.

3. During the course of investigation, police visited the place of
occurrence and recorded the statements of the witnesses. He also
recovered the victim girl and recorded her statement. The I/O also got
her examined through the doctor and got recorded her statement u/s-
164 Cr.P.C. The accused was arrested during the investigation of the
case and he was sent to judicial custody. On completion of
investigation, police submitted Charge Sheet against the FIR named
accused Ajoy Satnami u/s-366(A) IPC, r/w Section-4 of the POCSO Act.

Contd...
4. The case record was transferred in due course to this Special
Court for trial.

5. Upon hearing both sides and considering the materials on
record, charges u/s-366 IPC, r/w Section-4 of the POCSO Act were
framed against the accused. He denied the charges and claimed to be
tried.

6. During the course of trial, prosecution side examined the
complainant and the victim girl. Considering the evidence of the victim
who is the star witness, further prosecution evidence was closed. The
accused was examined u/s-313 Cr.PC. The defence plea is of total
denial. The accused person has declined to adduce defence evidence.

7. | have heard Mr. M.J. Neog, learned Special Prosecutor as well
as Mr. A. Rahman, learned Counsel for the defence. | have also
thoroughly and meticulously gone through the evidence and materials

on record.

8. Now the points for determination are as follows :-

(1) Whether accused prior to two months from 16/05/2018
kidnapped ‘Miss. X', the minor daughter of the complainant with an
intention or knowing likely that she would be forced / seduced to illicit
intercourse with any person and thereby committed offence punishable
u/s-366 IPC ?

(Il) Whether the accused person having kidnapped the said
victim daughter of the complainant committed penetrative assault

Contd...
4

upon her and thereby committed an offence punishable u/s-4 of the
POCSO Act ?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF

 

9. For the sake of convenience and precision, both the points
are being discussed simultaneously. PW-1 'Miss. X' is the victim
daughter of PW-2 (complainant).

10. PW-1 has testified before this court on 03/01/2019. On the
said date, her age was 16 years. In her examination-in-chief, she has
deposed that on 02/01/2018 she went to get her annual examination
result from her school. As she could not success in her examination, as
such apprehending that she would be thrashed by her father, she went
to her aunt's house at Bishwanath Chariali. At that time, accused Ajoy
Satnami was at his work place in Hyderabad. She loved him and forced
him to take her to his house. Her mother lodged the case suspecting
that the accused had kidnapped her. While she was returning to her
house from Bishwanath Chariali, police found her at Hatbor. Police also
got her medically examined through the doctor. She has clearly stated
that Ext.-1 is her statement before the Magistrate which she gave
being offended with the accused. Ext.-1(1) to Ext.-1(4) are her
signatures.

11. PW-2 has deposed that the age of her daughter is 16 years.
She also deposed that on 02/01/2018, her daughter went to get her
annual examination result of Class-VIIl. As she failed in the
examination, she apprehended that her father would thrash her and
she fled away to her aunt's house at Bishanath Chariali. She was
staying there for five months. There was love affairs between her

Contd...
5

daughter and the accused. After two months of the occurrence, PW-2
was informed by the aunt of PW-1 that she was at her house. Initially,
she lodged one missing entry at the Police Station when her daughter
became missing. PW-2 has categorically stated that she lodged the
Ejahar against the accused out of suspicion as he had love affairs with
her daughter.

In cross-examination, she has reiterated that she lodged the
case on suspicion on the accused.

12. Now, from the evidence of PW-1 who is the star witness, it is
clear that accused Ajoy Satnami did not take away or enticed away her
to Bishwanath Chariali. She has also not stated anything that the
accused committed sexual intercourse with her. Be it mentioned here
that the statement u/s-164 Cr.P.C. is not a substantive piece of
evidence which may be used only for corroboration and contradiction
of the witnesses. Here in this case, PW-1 in her Ext.-1 statement stated
that the accused took her to aunt's house at Bishwanath Chariali where
they were staying for 15 days sharing physical relation. But PW-1 at the
time of deposing before this court has not made any of the said
allegations against the accused. Therefore, when PW-1 does not
Support her version made vide Ext.-1 to be true rather contradicts
stating that the same was made being offended with the accused, it is
difficult to act upon Ext.-1 as genuinely made.

13. In view of the above, it is held that the prosecution has failed
to prove the case against the accused beyond reasonable doubt.
Accordingly, the accused stands acquitted on benefit of doubt.

14. The bail bond shall remain in force for another 6(six) months

Contd...
6

in the spirit of section 437(A) Cr.P.C.

15. The Sessions case is disposed of accordingly.

Judgment is pronounced'§= and
delivered in the open Court under the seal
of this Court and on my signature on this
5 day of February, 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me.
Special Judge, Nagaon.
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
