 

 

U/S — 8 of the POCSO Act,2012.

State of Assam
- Versus -
Fakrul Islam Barbhuiya ia... saa Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

n n -
For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the accused person :- Sri K.U. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.
Date of recording evidence :- 21.02.2019 & 30.07.2019.
Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC :- 03.08.2019.
Date of Argument :- 03.08.2019.
Date of Judgment :- 03.08.2019.

JUDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 14.06.2018 the

informant Smti. Tapati Dutta lodged an ejahar with the O/C, Katlicherra Police
Station alleging that her minor daughter i.e. the victim, aged 9 years is a student of
Class IV of N.K. Dey Academy, Katlicherra and on the previous day i.e. on
13.06.2018 as usually the accused took the victim to her school alongwith other
pupils in his Auto rickshaw bearing registration No. AS 24C/4619 and at about 2.30
PM he was returning from the school after the school was over alongwith the victim
and other students in his said Auto rickshaw and when the accused reached the
place Laalmati after dropping all the students except the victim, he took the victim

COMMS ih seses P/2.
wr.

 

ial (P . 14/201
“2s

near him from the rear seat and committed bad acts with the victim, even he
touched her chest and private part and tried to commit rape on her.

Zz On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered as
Katlicherra Police Station case No. 133/2018 under Sec. 8 of the POCSO Act and
during investigation, police visited the place of occurrence, drew up rough sketch
map thereof, made seizure of certain materials, recorded statements of witnesses,
got the victim medically examined and also got her statement recorded under Sec.
164, CPC and after completion of investigation submitted charge sheet against the
accused person Fakrul Islam Barbhuiya under Sec. 8 of the POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of accused person Fakrul Islam Barbhuiya,
copies of relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were furnished to him.

4. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence
Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record, having found sufficient
grounds for presuming that the accused person has committed the offence, the
formal charges have been framed against the accused person  Fakrul Islam
Barbhuiya under Sec.8 of the POCSO Act. The charge so framed was read over and
explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried. Hence, the trial.

S. In the instant case, the prosecution has examined 2
Nos. of PWs including the victim and the informant of the case. Thereafter, on
submission of Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence Counsel, the prosecution
evidence was closed. The accused person is examined under Sec. 313, CrPC,
wherein he has denied the allegations levelled against him by the prosecution. The
defence did not adduce any evidence.

6. Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record.

CIE, dscns P/3.
ial (P . 14/2018.
«3
POINT FOR DETERMINATION :-

Whether the accused person on 13.06.2018 at about 2.30 PM
at Lalmati area under Katlicherra Police Station committed sexual assault on the
victim, the daughter of informant and thereby the accused committed an offence
punishable under Sec. 8 of the POCSO Act?

I I REASONS THEREOF :-

7. The PW. 1, Smti. Tapati Dutta, the informant has deposed
that the victim is her daughter and the accused being an Auto rickshaw driver used
to carry her daughter alongwith other students to her school and accordingly, on
13.06.2018 after the school was over, at about 2.30 PM her daughter alongwith 2
other students boarded the Auto rickshaw for reaching home but on the way, 2
students got down from the Auto rickshaw at Lalmati and her daughter was alone in
the Auto rickshaw and thereafter, the accused brought the victim in his seat and
then he touched her chest, tried to put his hand inside the lower part of the frock
and also touched the entire body of the victim and the victim started to cry but the
accused gagged her mouth with his hand. The accused also gave chips to the victim
and asked her not to disclose the incident to anybody but her daughter came home
and disclosed the entire incident to her and then she lodged the FIR, Ext. 1.

In cross examination, the informant has stated that all the
students of their locality use the vehicle of the accused and there are many houses
in both the sides of the road from National Highway to her house. The witness
denied the suggestion put to her by the defence to the effect that the accused did
not commit any such offence but the witness denied the same.

8. The PW.2 is the victim, who is 10 years old. To ascertain her
maturity, some questions were put to her and accordingly, she gave rational
answers and as such, she was found matured enough. In her evidence, the victim
has stated that about one year back while she was returning back from school

CONE, s..s,.0:03 P/4.
 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 14/2018.

-4-
boarding the Auto rickshaw of the accused being driven by him and after being
reached in zigzag area, she was about to fell down from the Auto rickshaw but the
accused caught hold of her hand and thereafter, he took her to a shop and gave her
chips and asked her not to disclose the same to anybody but she disclosed the same
to her father. It is further stated by the victim that she was medically examined and
her statement was recorded by Magistrate vide Ext. 2 and Exts. 2(1) and 2(2) are
her signatures.

In cross examination, the victim has stated that the accused
tried to save her but she made her statement before Magistrate on being tutored by
her relatives.

9. In the instant case, the informant i.e. PW. 1 has implicated
the accused person completely in the FIR as well as in her evidence before this
Court but her daughter i.e, the victim in her evidence stated a different version. She
has stated that on the relevant day she was returning from school in the Auto
rickshaw of the accused and when they reached in zigzag area, she was about to fell
down from the Auto rickshaw but the accused caught hold of her hand and tried to
save her. It is also made clear by the victim that she made statement, Ext. 2 before
the Magistrate on being tutored by her relatives As such, when the victim herself,
whose evidence bears much significance to decide such type of cases, has not
supported the prosecution case, I do not find any cogent reason to hold the accused
person guilty for the commission of the offence, alleged.

10. Accordingly, it can be safely held that the prosecution failed to
prove its case against the accused person.

11. The accused person Fakrul Islam Barbhuiya is acquitted of the
offence charged under Sec. 8 of the POCSO Act. Set him at liberty forthwith.

12. The bail bond of the accused stands discharged.
COME, os h.0css P/5.
Special (POCSO) Case No. 14/2018.
«Ss :
13. Send a copy of this judgment to the Ld. District Magistrate,
Hailakandi.
The judgment is delivered today, on this the 3 day of August,
2019 Hailakandi.

 

Di n rrect me :-

 

CONEE......0+00 Pf.
Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, Smti. Tapati Dutta,

PW. 2, the victim.

Documentary evidences :-

Ext. 1- FIR &

Ext. 2- Statement of the victim recorded under Sec. 164, CrPC.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

 
