DISTRICT : DHUBRI
IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHUBRI

PRESENT: - = Shri A. Chakravarty, M.A., LL.M., AJS

Special Case No. 31 of 2016

Under Sections 323/34 IPC and 8 of the POCSO Act, r/w Section 34 IPC
Corresponding to G.R. Case No. 3910/2016

Stateof Assam Complainant
Versus
1. Shri Alom Sheikh

2. Shri Atinur Sheikh ... Accused
Charge framed on : 01-03-2017

Evidence recorded on : 20-04-2017, 06-06-2017 and 17-08-2017
Statement recorded on : 25-09-2017

Arguments heard on : 27-10-2017

Judgment delivered on : 10-11-2017

Advocates who appeared in this case are:

Shri Maniruz Zaman, Special P.P. for the Prosecution

Shri Giasuddin Ahmed, Advocate, for the Defence
Special Case No. 31 of 2016

JUDGMENT

1. This case was registered on 17-09-2016, at Gauripur Police Station, under
Sections 341/342/323/34 of the Indian Penal Code, 1860 (in short “the IPC”),
read with Section 4 of the Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012
(in short “the POCSO Act”), based on a First Information Report (in short “the
FIR”) filed by one Sona Kanta Ray against accused Alom Sheikh and Atinur Sheikh.

2. The case of the prosecution, as stated in the FIR is that on 16-09-2016, at
around 01:00 p.m., on the PWD road at village Dumordoh, Part-IV, under
Gauripur Police Station, plying a bicycle and accompanied by her friend
(hereinafter referred to as “the victim girl”), aged about 12 years, while the minor
daughter of the informant (hereinafter referred also as “the victim girl”), aged
about 14 years, was proceeding from the house of the informant towards Kurirpar,
near the house of Prafulla Ray, the accused Alom Sheikh and Atinur Rahman
waylaid them and pushed them down from the bicycle, as a result of which, they
sustained injuries on their body. They then raised a hue and cry, at which, the
nearby people came forward and seeing them, the accused fled away. Therefore,
the informant filed the FIR of the instant case with the Balajan Police Out-post on
16-09-2016.

3. The In-charge of the Balajan Police Out-post entered the FIR in the General
Diary Book of the Outpost vide Entry No.237, dated 16-09-2016 and forwarded
the FIR to the Golakganj Police Station for registration of a case. He also started

investigation in anticipation.

4. Based on the FIR, the Officer In-charge of the Gauripur Police Station
registered the case No.929/2016 for commission of offences punishable under
Sections 341/342/323/34 IPC, read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act against the

accused Alom Sheikh and Atinur Rahman.

5. During the course of investigation, the victim girls were medically examined
and their statements were recorded by the Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
Statements of several witnesses were also recorded and after completion of

investigation, a charge sheet was filed for offences punishable under Sections

2
Special Case No. 31 of 2016

341/342/323/34 IPC, read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused
Alom Sheikh and Atinur Rahman in this Court as the offences under the POCSO
Act are tirable by the Special Court and this Court has been designated as the
Special Court to try offences under the POCSO Act. Hence, this case.

6. During trial, charges under Sections 323/34 IPC and Section 8 of the
POCSO Act, read with Section 34 IPC were framed against the accused Alom
Sheikh and Atinur Rahman. When the contents of the charges were read over and

explained to the accused, they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

7. The prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined eight witnesses. The

accused did not examine any witness.

8. In their examination under Section 313 Cr.P.C., the accused have denied the
prosecution case and have stated that the allegations levelled against then are
false and baseless.

9. The point for determination in this case is:-

Whether on 16-09-2016, at around 01:00 p.m., on the PWD road at village
Dumordoh, Part-IV, under Gauripur Police Station, the accused Alom Sheikh and
Atinur Rahman voluntarily caused hurts to the victim girls, who on the day of the
alleged occurrence, were child under 18 years of age and also sexually assaulted

them?

If so, what punishment do they deserve?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

10. I have carefully examined the evidence on record, gone through the
relevant documents on record and after hearing the arguments advanced by the
learned counsels for both the sides, give my decision on the above point as

follows:-
Special Case No. 31 of 2016

11. The P.W.-2, one of the victim girls, has deposed that plying a bicycle along
with her friend, (the other victim girl), while they were proceeding towards the
house of the other victim girl situated at village Dumordoha, coming from behind
in a motorcycle the accused pushed them down and thereafter, pulled them and
caressed their breasts. When they raised hue and cry, the nearby people came

forward and seeing them, the accused fled away from the place of occurrence.

12. In the cross-examination, she has stated that she did not see which of the
accused was driving the motorcycle. She also could not say which of the accused
pushed them down. Her friend was plying the bicycle and she was sitting in the
rear seat. Their bicycle also fell down and was damaged. She did not notice any
other motorcycle on the road at that time. There were three persons in the
motorcycle in which the accused were travelling. Leaving the two accused at the
place of occurrence, the other person fled away with the motorcycle. The road
was a PWD road. There were houses on both the sides of the road. She has
denied the suggestion that the accused did not push them down and also did not

caress their breasts.

13. The PW.-3, the other victim girl, has also deposed that on 16-09-2016, at
around 01:00 PM, plying a bicycle with her friend victim girl, while they were
proceeding towards her house, on the way, the accused pushed them down from
behind as a result of which, they fell down on the road. Thereafter, the accused
pulled them and caressed their breasts. When they raised hue and cry, the nearby
people came forward and seeing them, the accused fled away from the place of

occurrence.

14. In the cross-examination she has stated that she did not see how the
accused came. She also did not see any motorcycle. A passerby lifted them up.
She has denied the suggestion that the accused did not push them down and also

did not caress their breasts.

15. PW.-4 Anita Bala Ray has deposed that on the day of the alleged
occurrence, at around 01:00 PM, hearing a hue and cry in front of her house, she

went out and saw that the accused were pulling the victim girls.
Special Case No. 31 of 2016

16. In the cross-examination, she has stated that at the time of the occurrence,
she was working at the Domordah CHC. She knew the victim girls since before
the occurrence. The incident occurred in front of her house. There are other
houses near her house. At the time of the incident, they were taking lunch.
Hearing a sound, she went to the place of occurrence. The incident occurred on
the main road. Many people, including the Member of the Gaon Panchayat,
namely Hamidur Rahman, arrived at the place of occurrence. The victim girls
were lying on the road and they lifted them. The bicycle was lying near the victim
girls. She did not see any motorcycle there. She has denied the suggestion that at

the time of the occurrence, she was not present in her house.

17. P.W.-5 Prafulla Chandra Ray has deposed that on the day of the occurrence,
while he was taking lunch, hearing a hue and cry near his house, he went out
and saw that the accused were pulling the victim girls and seeing him, the

accused fled away.

18. In the cross-examination, he has stated that he saw the victim girls
standing on the road and their bicycle lying on the road. His wife also
accompanied him to the place of occurrence. He has denied the suggestion that
the accused did not pull the victim girls. He has denied the suggestion that while
plying the bicycle, the victim girls met with an accident. He has also denied the
suggestion that due to previous enmity, he has deposed falsely against the
accused persons. But, the accused did not prove by adducing any positive

evidence what previous enmity the PW-4 had with them.

19. P.W.-6 Binod Chandra Ray has deposed that on the day of the occurrence,
he was present in his house. Suddenly, he heard a sound of falling bicycle. He
then went out and saw that the victim girls were crying. When he asked them
what the matter was, they told him that the accused had pushed and shoved

them.

20. In the cross-examination, he has denied the suggestion that he did not tell
the police that he saw the victim girls crying and when he asked them as to why
they were crying, they told him that the accused pushed and shoved them. He

has also denied the suggestion that due to religious dispute and as the accused
5
Special Case No. 31 of 2016

belonged to different religion, he has deposed falsely against the accused. But,
the accused did not adduce any positive evidence to prove that the PW-6 had

religious dispute with them.

21. P.W.-1, Dr. Mithun Paul, who had treated the victim girls, has deposed that
on 16-09-2016, he had examined the victim girls and found swelling and
tenderness on the right ankle joint and on the right thumb of one of the victim
girl and found abrasion on the left knee joint, abrasion on the medial side of left
elbow and swelling on the right side of the upper lip of the other victim girl. Ext.1
is the injury report prepared by him and Ext.1 (1) is his signature therein. Thus,
the PW.1 has proved that the victim girls had sustained some injuries on the day

of the occurrence.

22. In the cross-examination, he has stated that all the injuries were superficial.
He has not mentioned the colour of the swelling area of the lip. He has further
stated that all the injuries may be caused by dashing against any hard substance

or due to falling. He has further stated that the injuries may also be self-inflicted.

23. P.W.-8 Pranjal Hatiboruah has deposed that on 16-09-2016, he was posted
at the In-charge of the Balajan Police Out-post, under Gauripur Police Station. On
that day, the informant Sona Kanta Ray, son of Late Lakhi Kanta Ray, verbally
informed him that plying a bicycle, while his daughter (one of the victim girls) and
her friend (the other the victim girl) were proceeding towards village Kurirpar, at
village- Dumardaha, Part-IV, the accused Alom Sheikh and Atinur Sheikh waylaid
them, pushed them down on the ground, caught hold of them and tried to took
them to the nearby bamboo bush. When they shouted for help, the villagers
arrived there and rescued them. He entered the information in the General Diary
Book of the police out-post vide entry No.237, dated 16-09-2016. Ext. 2 is the
said G.D. Entry No.237, dated 16-09-2016 and Ext-2 (1) is his signature therein.
Thereafter, he sent both the victim girls to the Gauripur CHC for medical
examination and went to the place of occurrence and prepared a site plan. Ext-3
is the said site plan and Ext-3 (1) is his signature therein. He also recorded the
statements of the witnesses at the place of occurrence. Thereafter, he returned to

the out-post. At the outpost, the informant Sona Kanta Ray lodged the Ext-4 FIR

6
Special Case No. 31 of 2016

of the case. Ext-4 (1) his signature therein and Ext-4 (2) is the signature of the
Officer In-charge of the Gauripur Police Station. Thereafter, he recorded the
statements of the informant and the victim girls. He sent the FIR to the Gauripur
Police Station for registration of a case and based on the FIR, the Officer In-
charge of the Gauripur Police Station registered a case and entrusted him to
investigate the case. Thereafter, he collected the injury report of the victim girls.
He also arrested the accused persons and forwarded them to the Court. After
completion of investigation, he submitted charge sheet for offences under
Sections 341, 342, 323, 34 IPC, r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act against the
accused persons. Ext-5 is the said charge sheet and Ext-5 (1) is his signature

therein.
24. By cross-examining the PW-8, the defence has failed to bring out
anything based on which it can be said that he was not telling the truth or

has deposed falsely.

25. P.W. 7 Jagadish Chandra Ray is not a material witness of the case.

26. It can be seen from the above discussion that on 16-09-2016, at around
01:00 p.m., on the PWD road at village Dumordoh, Part-IV, under Gauripur Police
Station, the accused Alom Sheikh and Atinur Rahman pushed down the victim
girls from their bicycle as a result of which, they fell down on the road and
sustained the injuries as deposed by the P.W.-1. Further, as the victim girls have
deposed that thereafter, the accused pulled them and caressed their breasts. it
must be held that the accused voluntarily caused hurts to the victim girls and also
sexually assaulted them who, on the day of the alleged occurrence, were child of

14 and 12 years old.

27. For the purpose of this case, we may first firstly refer to Section 7 of the
POCSO Act, which reads as follows:-

“7. Sexual Assault.- Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis,
anus or breasts of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis, anus or
breast of such person or any other person, or does any other Act with sexual
intent which involves physical contact without penetration is said to commit

sexual assault". (Emphasis added).
Special Case No. 31 of 2016

28. The scope of the provision of Section 7 crystal clear. Hence, the Section

requires no further elucidation. Section 8 is the penal provision for Section 7.

29. In order to attract any offence under the provisions of the POCSO Act, it
should be proved by the prosecution that on the date of the commission of the
crime, the victim was a child. The term "child" has been defined in Section 2(d) of
the POCSO Act, which states that child means any person below the age of 18
years. Thus, for the purpose of any offence under the POCSO Act, the age of the
victim should be proved to be below 18 years as on the date of commission of the
alleged crime. In the instant case, it can be seen from the above discussion that
the victim girls, who on the day of the alleged occurrence were child under 18
years of age, withstood gruelling cross-examination by an experienced advocate
of the Dhubri Bar, namely Shri Giasuddin Anmed. The accused did not even
challenge the victim girls in the cross-examination that on the day of the alleged
occurrence, they were not child under 18 years of age. Therefore, the accused
Alom Sheikh and Atinur Rahman must be held guilty of committing the offences
punishable under Sections 323/34 IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act, read with
Section 34 IPC. As both the accused actually committed the alleged offences, they
can be held guilty of committing the alleged offences even without the aid of
Section 34 IPC.

30. Regarding the culpable mental state of the accused, we may refer to the
Section 30 of the POSCO Act, which reads as follows:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state.- (1) In any prosecution for
any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the part of
the accused, the Special Court shall presume the existence of such mental state
but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such

mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a fact is said to be proved only when the
Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when

its existence is established by a preponderance of probability”.

31. In the instant case, as the accused Alom Sheikh and Atinur Rahman pushed
down the victim girls from their bicycle as a result of which, they fell down on the
8
Special Case No. 31 of 2016

road and sustained injuries and as thereafter, the accused pulled them and
caressed their breasts, it must be held that the accused voluntarily caused hurts
to the victim girls and also sexually assaulted them who, on the day of the
alleged occurrence, were children of 14 and 12 years old, therefore, their culpable
mental state has to be presumed. Further, the accused did not rebut the said
presumption. Therefore, I hold that the accused had culpable mental state while
pushing down the victim girls from their bicycle and thereafter, pulling them and
caressing their breasts. Apart from the same, the presumption of guilt under
Section 29 of the POSCO Act also needs to be applied as all the necessary facts
regarding commission of the offence under the POSCO Act have been proved.

The said presumption also has not been rebutted by the accused persons.

32. Failing to shake the prosecution case, the learned counsel for the accused
vehemently argued that as the FIR was not filed immediately after the alleged
occurrence, the prosecution case is liable to be rejected in its entirety for the

delay in lodging the FIR.

33. Ido not agree with this contention of the learned counsel for the accused.
It can be seen from the above discussion that immediately after the occurrence;
the father of one of the victim girls went to the Balajan Police Out-post and
verbally informed the Balajan police about the occurrence. The Balajan Police also
entered the said verbal information in the General Diary Book of the Out-post vide
entry No.237, dated 16-09-2016, at 04:45 p.m, which reads as follows:

“ Shri Sona Kanta Ray, son of Late Lakhi Kanta Ray, resident of
Dhorarghat, Part-I, P.S. Gauripur, District-Dhubri, Assam verbally informed that
today, at around 01-00 p.m., plying a bicycle along with her friend, aged about
12 years, while his daughter, aged about 14 years, was proceeding from his
house towards Kurirpar, at Dumardaha, Part-IV, Alom Sheikh, son of Monir Uddin
Sheikh, resident of Dhorarghat, Part-I, P.S. Gauripur and Atinur Sheikh, son of
Moksed Ali Sheikh, resident of Dumardaha, Part-IV, P.S. Gauripur, District-Dhubri,
Assam, on the PWD road at Dumardaha, Part-IV, near the house of Prafulla Ray,
pushed and shoved them. The girls were sent for medical examination to the

Gauripur PHC and waited to do the needful after receiving the FIR.”
Special Case No. 31 of 2016

34. Therefore, immediately after the occurrence; the father of the one of the
victim girls went to the Balajan Police Out-post and verbally informed the Balajan
police about the occurrence. As the incident occurred at village Domordaha, Part-
IV, having learnt about the same, the informant went to the place of occurrence
and took the victim girls to the Balajan Police Out Post and informed the Balajan
police about the matter, that must have taken the time intervening time between

the occurrence and making of the G.D. Entry.

35. Further, as can be seen from the above discussion, the contents of the G.D.
Entry No.237, dated 16-09-2016 and the FIR are same. Therefore, even if the
G.D. Entry No.237, dated 16-09-2016 is held to be the FIR, then also the same
will not adversely affect the merits of the prosecution case. In view of the above,
I am of the opinion that there was no delay in the lodging of the FIR and if at all
there was some delay, in the facts and circumstances of the case, the same was

natural.

36. The learned counsel for the accused further argued that as the P.W.-1 has
deposed that he found swelling and tenderness on the right ankle joint and on the
right thumb and found abrasion on the left knee joint, abrasion on the medial side
of left elbow on one of the victim girl and swelling on the right side of the upper
lip of the other victim girl but, as the victim girls did not specifically depose that
they sustained the said injuries at the hands of the accused, it cannot be held that
the victim girls sustained the said injuries at the hands of the accused. I do not
agree with this contention of the learned counsel for the accused as the victim
girls were child of 14 and 12 years and they have categorically stated that when
the accused pushed them, they fell down from the bicycle and sustained injuries.
Therefore, though they did not specifically depose about the injuries sustained by
them, it cannot be held that they did not sustain the said injuries at the hands of
the accused. Therefore, the accused must be held guilty of voluntary causing
hurts to them.

37. The leaned counsel for the accused further argued that as there was
another accused and after committing the alleged offences, the said accused fled

away with the motorcycle, the accused Alom Sheikh and Atinur Rahman cannot be

10
Special Case No. 31 of 2016

held guilty of the committing alleged offences. I do not agree with this contention
of the learned counsel for the accused as for not charge sheeting the said
accused, it cannot be held that the accused Alom Sheikh and Atinur Rahman are

not guilty of committing the alleged offences.

38. In the result, from the facts and circumstances of the case and above
discussion, I hold that the prosecution has succeeded in bringing home the
charges under Sections 323/34 IPC and Section 8 of the POCSO Act, read with
Section 34 IPC, against the accused Alom Sheikh and Atinur Rahman beyond all
reasonable. Hence, I hold the accused Alom Sheikh and Atinur Rahman guilty of
committing the offences punishable under Sections 323/34 IPC and Section 8 of
the POCSO Act, read with Section 34 IPC and convict them under the said

Sections of law. The point is decided in the affirmative, accordingly.

39. The minimum sentence prescribed under Section 8 of the POCSO Act is
Rigorous Imprisonment for three years which cannot be modified or altered.
Therefore, the Probation of Offenders Act is not applicable to the instant case. As
such, the accused are not entitled to get the benefit of the ameliorative relief as

envisaged under the said Act.

40. Heard the convicts on the question of sentence. They have pleaded leniency
in awarding the punishment on the grounds that they are first offenders and are

youths.

41. Inthe case of State of A.P. v. Bodem Sundara Rao, reported in (1995)
6 SCC 230: AIR 1996 SC 530, dealing with a case of reduction of sentence from
10 years R.I. to 4 years R.I. by the High Court in the case of rape of a girl aged

between 13 and 14 years, the Hon’ble Supreme Court has observed as follows:

“In recent years, we have noticed that crime against women are on the rise.
These crimes are an affront to the human dignity of the society. Imposition of
grossly inadequate sentence and particularly against the mandate of the
legislature not only is an injustice to the victim of the crime in particular and the
society as a whole in general but also at times encourages a criminal. The Courts
have an obligation while awarding punishment to impose appropriate punishment
so as to respond to the society's cry for justice against such criminals. Public

11
Special Case No. 31 of 2016

abhorrence of the crime needs a reflection through the Court's verdict in the
measure of punishment. The Courts must not only keep in view the rights of the
criminal but also the rights of the victim of crime and the society at large while
considering imposition of the appropriate punishment. The heinous crime of
committing rape on a helpless 13/14 years old girl shakes our judicial conscience.
The offence was inhumane.” The sentence was accordingly enhanced to 7 years

R.I. in the said case.

42. Inthe case of CHANDER SINGH Vs. STATE, reported in (2016) 2 Crimes
792, in a case under Section 8 of the POCSO Act, the Hon'ble Delhi High Court
has held as follows:--

“20. Consequently, the conviction of Chander Singh is altered to one for
offence defined under Section 7 and punishable under Section 8 of Pocso Act.
The punishment for sexual assault prescribed under Section 8 is imprisonment for
not less than 3 years which may extend up to 5 years and to pay fine as well. The
conduct of Chander Singh in sexually assaulting a deaf and dumb girl who was
not in a position to protect herself fully warrants maximum punishment.
Consequently, the order on sentence of Chander Singh is altered and modified.
Chander Singh is directed to undergo rigorous imprisonment for a period of 5
years and to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/- in default whereof to undergo simple

imprisonment for a period of 1 month.”

43. In the case in our hand, the convicts have sexually assaulted two minor
girls in broad daylight, on a public road. Therefore, they have scant regards to
the civilized norms and no woman will be safe from them. Therefore, I do not
think it proper to punish the convicts leniently as the age of the accused can
hardly be a relevant consideration while imposing adequate and appropriate
punishment. Hence, I deem it proper to award the maximum punishment

prescribed under the law to them.

ORDER

44. Considering the entire facts and circumstances of the case, I sentence the
convict Alom Sheikh and Atinur Rahman to undergo rigorous imprisonment for

three months and to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees one thousand) only, each

12
Special Case No. 31 of 2016

in default to undergo rigorous imprisonment for fifteen days each, for committing
the offence under Sections 323, read with 34 IPC and to undergo rigorous
imprisonment for five years each and to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees ten
thousand) only, each in default to undergo rigorous imprisonment for six months
each, for committing the offence under Section 8 of the POCSO Act, read with
Section 34 IPC, which, in my opinion, will meet the ends of justice in this case.
Both the sentences shall run concurrently as the both the offences have arisen
from one transaction. The period of detention already undergone during
investigation and trial shall be set off from the sentence of imprisonment. The

bail bonds of the accused stand cancelled. Issue Jail warrants.
45. Furnish copy of the judgment to the convicts free of cost, immediately.

46. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on this the 10” day of
November, 2017, at Dhubri.

(A.Chakravarty)
Special Judge, Dhubri
Dictated & corrected by me

(A.Chakravarty)
Special judge, Dhubri

13
Special Case No. 31 of 2016

APPENDIX

1. PROSECUTION WITNESSES:

P.W.- 1 Dr. Mithun Paul
P.W.-2 Jonali Ray

P.W.-3 Sangita Ray

P.W.-4 Anitabala Ray

P.W.-5 Prafulla Ch. Ray
P.W.-6 Binod Ch. Roy

P.W.-7 Jagadish Ch. Ray
P.W.-8 S.I. Pranjal Hatiboruah

2. PROSECUTION EXHIBITS:

Exhibit-1 Injury Report

Exhibit-2 Extract copy of G.D. Entry.
Exhibit-3 Site Plan

Exhibit-4 FIR

Exhibit-5 Charge Sheet.

(A.Chakravarty)
Special Judge, Dhubri

14
