DISTRICT : DHUBRI
IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHUBRI
PRESENT: - Shri T. Kalita,
Special Judge, Dhubri
Special Case No. 14 OF 2018

U/S 4 of POCSO Act, R/w Section 342/376 IPC
Corresponding to G.R. Case No.1082/2017

State of Assam ....Complainant
Versus
Ashik Jaman Mondal @ Bachha sss Accused person
Charge framed on : 23-05-2018
Evidence recorded on : 15-06-2018, 05-02-2019
03-05-2019, 06-12-2019
Statement recorded on : 17-12-2019
Argument heard on : 10-02-2020
Judgment delivered on : 17-02-2020

Advocates who appeared in this case
Shri U.K. Sarkar, Special P.P. for the Prosecution
Shri Y. A. Bepari, Advocate for the Defence

JUDGMENT

1. A Special Case was registered u/s 4 of POCSO Act, R/W section 342/376
IPC against the accused person namely Ashik Jaman Mondal @ Bachha on the
basis of an FIR laid by the complainant / victim X (The name is withhold
considering the nature of the case) on 18-03-2017 to the effect that she was
having love affair with the accused for three years. He promised her to marry
and as a result she succumbed to his lust and has sex with her several times. He
further took her on 16-03-2017 at about 06:30 p.m. and also committed rape on
her. However, he declined to marry her only when she proposed her to marry.

The accused, however, was trying to marry another girl.

Page | 1
Special Case No. 14 of 2018

 

2. Police accordingly, investigated the case and upon completion of
investigation laid charge sheet against the accused Ashik Jaman Mondal @
Bachha to stand trial u/s 4 of POCSO Act, R/W section 342/376 IPC.

3. Upon appearance, the accused was furnished copies and formal charge
u/s 4 of POCSO Act, R/W section 342/376 IPC was framed, read over and

explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.

4. During trial, the prosecution has examined as many as six witnesses. The
examination of the accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. and his plea is found

total denial. However, he adduced none.

5. I have carefully perused the evidences on record and heard learned
counsels for both the sides and accordingly proceed to dispose of the case on the

following point for determination:

Whether the victim was subjected to penetrative sexual assault on being
allure that she would be married by him, but subsequently declined being the

victim Is about 17 years old?

DISCUSSION ON THE POINT FOR DETERMINATION AND DECISION
ARRIVED THEREON WITH REASONS

6. The prosecution has examined altogether six number of witnesses out of
which PW-1 is one Abdul Batin, father of the victim girl. According to him, about
one year back, he went to market and was informed by his wife that his
daughter X was not in his residence. Accordingly, he returned home and started
searching for his daughter, but could not trace her out. However, one VDP
Secretary Nur Mahammad informed him that his daughter was recovered and she
was brought by said Nur Mahammad to his house. On being asked, his daughter
told him that accused Ashik Jaman Mondal took her to his house and committed
rape on her. However, after two days, his daughter has lodged the ejahar. A
village bichar was held before filing the ejahar wherein the accused was imposed
a fine of Rs. 60,000/- by the village elders, but his daughter refused to accept
the same. He stated that his daughter studied up to class VIII. He does not know

when and how his daughter had left his house. The house of the accused is near

2|Page
Special Case No. 14 of 2018

 

to his house. He did not search his daughter in the house of the accused and the
houses of the neighbours. He denied the suggestion that he did not disclose
before the I.O. that his daughter told him that accused Ashik Jaman Mondal took
her to his house and committed rape on her. He also denied the suggestion that
there no village bichar was held in the house of the VDP Secretary where the

villagers held the accused guilty and imposed fine of Rs. 60,000/-.

ai PW-2 is the informant / victim X. According to her, the accused Ashik
Jaman Mondal is her neighbour. He expressed his love affair to her and promised
her to marry as a result she developed sexual relationship with him. The accused
took her to his house and also confined her in a room for two days. Her parents
started searching her, but VDP person took her to the police station wherein she
filed the case. Her statement was recorded by the police and was medically
examined. Her statement was also recorded by Magistrate vide Ext-2. Ext-1 is
the ejahar. She categorically stated that she has not mentioned her age in the
ejahar. Also has not stated that she was minor at the relevant time rather she
stated before the Magistrate that she is aged about 19 years while was recording
her statement. She also stated before the I.O. that she is aged about 19 years.
She also stated her age 19 years before the Medical Officer. She had love affair
with the accused since last three years. The house of the accused is near to her
house. There are many houses surrounding to their house. While she was taken
by the accused, his family members were present in the house. However, she
denied that she did not disclose before the Investigating Officer that the accused
gagged her mouth, confined her in a room and thereby committed rape on her

by force.

8. PW-3 is one Abdul Mozid. He does not know anything about the
occurrence. Though he was declared hostile by the prosecution, but no premium
has been elicited for the prosecution case. However, he stated that there is a
land dispute in between the parties. The parties are not his relatives. However,

after the incident the victim married another boy.

9. PW-4 is Subal Ch. Ray. She also does not know anything about the

occurrence. She was also declared hostile by the prosecution, but on cross-

3|Page
Special Case No. 14 of 2018

 

examination by the prosecution nothing has been framed to extract premium. He

too stated that there was a land dispute between the parties.

10. PW-5 is the Investigating Officer namely SI Subal Ch. Ray of Gauripur
Police Station. He investigated the case, visited the house of the accused,
prepared the sketch map, recorded the statement of the witnesses and sent the
victim to Dhubri Civil hospital for medical examination and also sent her to the
Court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. However, the accused
surrendered before the Court. Having completion of investigation, he laid charge
sheet against the accused u/s 4 of POCSO Act, R/W section 342/376 IPC to stand
trial. He has exhibited the sketch map and charge sheet vides Ext-3 and Ext-4.
Ext-3(1) and Ext-4(1) are his signatures. However, he has not collected any
documents relating to the age of the victim. But the victim has stated before the
Magistrate and the doctor that she is 19 years old. He further stated that victim X
did not disclose before him that the accused gagged her mouth, took her to his

room and committed rape on her person.

11. PW-6 is the Medical Officer namely Dr. Anjana Chakraborty Sharma. She
has examined the victim on 20-03-2017 at Dhubri Civil Hospital. On examination,
she found the patient normal. She did not find any injury mark on her body. She
also did not find any evidence of sexual intercourse on the victim at the time of
examination. However, Hymen was found torn. Accordingly, she has proved the
report as Ext-5 together with the Radiological report as Ext-6. Ext-5(1) and Ext-
6(1) are her signatures. She further stated that the girl told her she was 19 years

old. She further told that Radiological age may vary two years in either side.

12. Now, these much evidences are found available on record. From the
evidence of the witnesses as it appears, the following disturbing features have

been noticed.

13. The accused was charge sheeted to stand trial u/s 4 of POCO Act only on
the ground that the victim girl is below the age of 18 years. But here in the
instant case, it palpably clear that she has vehemently disclosed before the
police, Medical Officer as well as Judicial Magistrate while recording her

statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. that she is aged about 19 years. The Radiological

4|Page
Special Case No. 14 of 2018

 

report as decipher that her age is below 18 years is an expert opinion which may
vary from either side by two years. It is settled that whether there is a difference
of ocular evidence that with the medical evidence. Ocular evidence particularly
the evidence which emanated from the author himself / herself is taken into
consideration since medical evidence is an opinion evidence. Though the
prosecution examined as many as six number of witnesses, but none of the
witnesses save and except the father and daughter could able to say anything
implicating the accused person rather it is the evidence of PW-3 and PW-4 that
they do not have any knowledge about the subject matter of the case. Though
they were declared hostile by the prosecution, but nothing has been elicited to
extract any premium for the version of the prosecution to lend in its support. So,
the evidence of PW-3 and PW-4, the independent witnesses have lost its
significance in the eye of law. PW-5 and PW-6 are the Investigating Officer and
Medical Officer respectively and they are formal witnesses and have to be
deposed on the document that they have collected in a criminal case.
Documentary evidence will have to be given least precedence over the sanctity of
ocular evidence. The version of PW-2 the victim herself led me come to an
irrestible conclusion that she is having love affair with the accused for which she
succumbed to her body to the lust of the accused. Moreover, she did not disclose
before the Investigating Officer that the accused gagged her mouth, confined her
in a room and thereby committed rape on her is found a major inconsistence and
contradiction with the statement made by her u/s 164 Cr.P.C. So, the evidence
made by her is found diametrical opposite to the statement made by her before
the police u/s 161 Cr.P.C. Moreover, she has not stated anywhere that she is
minor at the time of occurrence. So, question of implicating the accused u/s 4 of
the POCSO Act is not arising. As such the accused is acquitted from the purview
of charge u/s 4 of the POCSO Act beyond all reasonable doubt.

14. Nowl1am to see whether the accused is found liable in any other section
of the Penal Court that has been charged u/s 376/342 IPC. The evidence as
appears goes to show that she did not disclose before the I.0. that she was
confined in a room by the accused and committed rape on her. So, she is found
contradicted with the statement recorded by Investigating Officer with that the

evidence made before the Court. So, the evidence adduced by her has got no

5|Page
Special Case No. 14 of 2018

 

significance in the eye of law. As such no offence is found to be committed by
the accused u/s 342 IPC.

15. Now the offence as alleged regarding section 376 IPC, the evidence is
found very smoky. It is the evidence of the prosecutrix herself that she is
subjected to lust of the accused every time since she is being allure and
promised to marry as a result of which she succumbed to her body to the
accused. So far an offence u/s 376 IPC, the ingredients of having commission of
rape on a person against her will against her consent provided that she is minor,
but here in the instant case she is major. She is having love affairs with the
accused and has voluntarily succumbed to herself to the accused probably by

urging her sexual interest.

16. Having considered all these aspects, I am of the view that the prosecution
has failed to prove the charge against the accused person beyond all reasonable
doubt. I have not got any alternative, but acquit the accused from the purview of
charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act, R/W section 342/376 IPC by setting him at liberty
forthwith.

17. The Bail Bond so furnished by the bailor stand cancelled.

18. Signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on this the 17” day of
February, 2020, at Dhubri.

(T. Kalita)
Special Judge, Dhubri
Dictated & corrected by me.

(T. Kalita)
Special judge, Dhubri

6|Page
Special Case No. 14 of 2018

 

APPENDIX

1. PROSECUTION WITNESSES:

PW-1 Abdul Batin

PW-2 X (Complainant/victim)

PW-3 Abdul Mozid

PW-4 Subal Ch. Ray

PW-5 Subal Ch. Ray (1.0.

PW-6 Dr. Anjana Chakraborty Sharma (M.O)

2. PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:

Exhibit-1

Exhibit-2

Exhibit-3

Exhibit-4

Exhibit-5

Exhibit-6

Ejahar

Statement of the victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C
Sketch map

Charge sheet

Medical report

Radiological report

(T. Kalita)
Special Judge, Dhubri

7|Page
