1

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.

Special P.O.C.S.O. Act CASE NO. 48 OF 2017

Under Section 448 IPC & 8 of P.O.C.S.0O. Act,2012

Present:- Smti. C. R. Goswami, A.J.S.,
Special Judge, Barpeta

State of Assam.

-versus-
Asaruddin ...... Accused.
APPEARANCE

For the Prosecution : Mr. Lalit Nath, learned P.P.
For the accused : Mr. Abu Bakkar Siddique, learned Advocate.
Evidence recorded on : 13.07.2018,
Argument heard on : 13.07.2018,
Judgment delivered on : 13.07.2018.

} U D G M E N T

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 21.12.2015 at about
3:00 PM while the informant was fishing in their pond, his minor daughter
was alone at home and she was working in her kitchen. Then suddenly the
accused person entered into their kitchen and tried to commit rape on
her. While the victim raised alarm, the informant and his neighbours
Safura Khatun and Nurjahan rushed to the place of occurrence and then
the accused person fled away. Accordingly, the father of the victim
Manuruddin lodged the FIR on 22.12.2015.
2

2. On the basis of the F.I.R. police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation submitted charge sheet
against accused Asaruddin under section 448/506 IPC read with section 8
of POCSO Act.

3. The accused person appeared before this court, copies were
furnished to him and after hearing both the parties charges were framed
against accused Asaruddin under section 448 IPC and 8 of POCSO Act.
Charges were read over and clearly explained to the accused person to
which he pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.

4. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined only
3(three) witnesses. Examination of the accused person under section 313
Cr.P.C. is dispensed with.

5. Points for determination:-

Whether on 21.12.2015 at about 3:00 P.M. at Sonpura, within
the jurisdiction of Kalgachia P.S.,District Barpeta, the accused person---
I) committed house trespass into the house of Mamani Khatun,
daughter of the informant Manuruddin, used as a human dwelling, in order
to commit an offence ?
ii) had been committed sexual assault on Mamani Khatun, who
is daughter of the informant Manuruddin ?

Discussion, decision and reasons thereof

 

6. According to the FIR, the accused person tried to commit
rape on the victim on 21.12.2015 at about 3:00 PM. The FIR was lodged
on 22.12.2015, but the victim was produced before the M.O. for
examination on 29.02.2016. However, the victim refused for her physical
examination.

7. The informant Manuruddin as PW1 has deposed that the
occurrence took place about 2/2¥% years ago, but prior to the occurrence
3

dispute was going on in between him and the accused. One day at about
4: 00 PM while he was fishing in their pond, the victim was alone at home.
At that time the accused person came to their house. Seeing the accused
the victim started shouting and then he rushed to his house. After 2/3
days of the occurrence he lodged the FIR at the instigation of their
Dewani. Ext.1 is the FIR, but no such occurrence took place as narrated in
the FIR.

8. One independent witness Safura Khatun as PW2 has
deposed that both the accused and informant are her neighbours. She
heard that a quarrel took place in between the accused and the informant.
Except that no such occurrence took place in between them.

9. The victim as PW3 has deposed that a land dispute was
going on between her father and the accused. About 1/2 years ago one
day at afternoon, her father was fishing in their pond. She was alone at
home. At that time the accused came to their house in search of her
father. Then out of fear she started shouting. Her father rushed to the
place of occurrence. Her father rebuked the accused. The accused fled
away. Her father lodged the case. Police produced her before the medical
officer, but she refused to undergo medical examination. Her statement
was recorded by the magistrate.

In cross examination, she has stated that she made
statement before the magistrate as tutored by her father and police. In
fact, no such occurrence took place and she has no objection if the
accused is acquitted.

10. From the above discussions of the evidences of the
prosecution witnesses, it is found that the victim is the vital witness in this
case. Except her no other witness saw the occurrence. But the victim
herself has not supported the case of the FIR. Rather, she has stated that
the accused came to their house in search of her father and she shouted
out of fear. She made the statement before the Magistrate as tutored by
her father and the police. PW1 i.e. the informant/father of the victim and
4

PW2 who is an independent witness, have also supported the version of
PW3 by saying that no such occurrence took place as narrated in the FIR.
Both the them have categorically stated that no such occurrence took
place as narrated in the FIR.

11. Under the above facts and circumstances, it is clear that
none of the prosecution witnesses had made a single whisper regarding
the commission of rape by the accused person on the victim. Under such
circumstances, the accused person cannot be held guilty either under
section 448 IPC or under section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012. Therefore, the
accused person is acquitted and set at liberty.

12. Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety are
extended for another period of six months from the date of this judgment
under section 437-A Cr.P.C.

13. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section 365
Cr.P.C.

14. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 13th day
of July, 2018.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-

(Smti. C. R. Goswami) (Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta.
APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 = Manuruddin, the informant,
P.W.2 = Safura Khatun,
P.W.3 = Mamani Khatun, the victim,

(B) Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1 = FIR,

Ext.1(1),1(2),&1(3) = Signature of the informant,

Ext.2 = Statement of victim u/s 164 CrPC.
Ext.2(1) & 2(2) = Signatures of the victim.

(C) Defence witnesses:Nil.
(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.
(E) Court witnesses:Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil.

Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
