1

_IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No. 51 of 2017

(Arising out of Barpeta P.S. Case No.1350/2017)
U/S 6 of PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL
OFFENCE ACT, 2012.

 

PRESENT: Sri Chatra Bhukhan Gogoi
Special Judge,
Barpeta.

Charge framed on:- 29.01.2018

State of Assam
-Vs-
Sri Somnath Sutradhar @ Fukka.............. Accused.

Date of Recording Evidence on- 02.04.2018, 06.08.2018, 29.11.2018
& 10.01.2019.

Date of Hearing Argument on - 28.05.2019

Date of Delivering the Judgment on-13.06.2019

Appearance:
Advocate for the State--------- Mrs. P. Das, Ld. Addl. P.P.
Advocate for the Accused----- Mr. Radhikananda Das, Ld Advocates.

UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case, in brief, as narrated in the FIR is that on
05.08.2017 one Sri Subhash Sutradhar lodged an ejahar in Barpeta
police station alleging inter-alia that on 03.08.2017 at about 8:30 pm
while his minor daughter (X) went to the shop to purchase candle from
nearby shop accused by persuading her, took her in his scooter saying
that he will gave her a ride on his scooter and then took her to a
2

nearby lonely place and committed penetrating sexual assault on her
by putting her mouth shut. Thereafter, accused again took her in his
scooter and left by dropping her in the place from where he took the
girl. Henc the case.

2. Following the information as above, Barpeta police station
registered a case being Barpeta PS Case No.1350/17 u/s 6 of POCSO
Act and took up investigation of the case.

3. During the course of investigation, police visited the place of
occurrence, recorded the statement of the witnesses, drew sketch map,
sent the victim girl to court for recording her statement before
Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and also sent the victim girl for medical
examination and collected the medical report. On conclusion of
investigation, I/O finally laid the charge sheet against accused Somnath
Sutradhar @ Fukka u/s 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 with a view to stand trial.
4. During the course of time, accused was summoned to court to
face trial. On his appearance, having supplied the copies as required
u/s 207 Cr.P.C. the then Hon'ble Special Judge, Barpeta vide order
dated 29.01.2018 framed charge u/s 6 of POCSO Act. The particulars of
the offence on being read over and explained accused pleaded not
guilty and claimed trial.

5. During the course of trial, prosecution altogether examined 7
witnesses including the alleged victim girl, the informant, the medical
officer as well as the investigating officer. PW-1 is doctor Mamata Devi,
PW-2 Sri Subhash Sutradhar (informant), PW-3 is the victim girl
(referred her as X), PW-4 Subir Choudhury, PW-5 Biki Karmakar, PW-6
Rajesh Saha and PW-7 Abhijit Kumar Baruah, the I/O respectively.

6. In order to establish the case, the prosecution also exhibited the
medical report as Ext.1, Ext.1(1) signature of doctor Mamata Devi,
Ext.1(2) is the signature of doctor Monoj Kumar Singha, Ext.2 ejahar,
Ext.2(1) signature of Subhash Sutradhar, Ext.3 164 Cr.P.C. statement of
the victim girl, Ext.3(1), 3(2) and 3(3) are the signatures of victim girl.
3

7. Concluding prosecution evidence, accused was examined u/s
313 Cr.P.C. but accused, denied the prosecution evidence as false and
concocted. However, on being asked, accused declined to adduce
defence evidence. His plea is total denial of the prosecution case.

8. Now point for determination ;-

1. Whether on 03.08.2017 at about 8:30 pm accused committed
aggravated penetrative sexual assault on the victim (X) as
alleged?

9. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision :-

 

Before going to discuss the arguments of the learned lawyers it
is apposite to discuss the evidence available on record first.
10. PW-1 Mamata Devi is the medical officer who examined the
victim girl on 05.08.2017 in connection with Barpeta PS. case
No.1350/17 u/s 6 of POCSO Act. On X-ray investigation the doctor found
the age of the victim girl above 7 years and below 9 years but did not
find any injury mark on her private part and did not find any injury on
her ear. There was no evidence of recent sexual intercourse detected
on her person.
11. PW-2 Sri Subhash Sutradhar is the informant, who deposed that
the incident occurred about 7/8 months back from the date of his
deposition in court on 02.04.2018 at about 6/7 pm. On that day “Julon
Puja” was celebrated and villagers were present there including his
wife and his daughter. But in the meantime, his daughter along with
her colleague went to nearby shop to purchase candle from where
accused took her on his scooter to the “Makhani Bhitha” belongs to
one Goda where accused touches the body of her daughter and tried to
commit sexual offence by removing her pant. Thereafter, accused
4

again took her on his scooter and left by dropping her. Then his
daughter coming home weeping and told her mother about the
incident. Then his wife went to the house of accused but accused was
not found there. Nevertheless, his mother was informed who denied
the same. Thereafter, mother also informed the matter to village head
who advised to file a case. Accordingly, a case was filed.

12. In his cross examination he stated that there are residence of
Barun Karmakar, Dibakar Sutradhar, Sanjib Karmakar and Samar
Karmakar etc nearby his house. While his daughter returned home
weeping, the mother Ritika Sutradhar and her brother Basudev
Sutradhar, mother Asarani were present. When he reached home he
met all of them and his daughter was weeping. He further deposed that
when his daughter went to purchase candle she was accompanied by
Sivasankar Karmakar. The accused was also belonged to the same
village. He was addressed by his daughter as “uncle” and there was
good family relation. He had not seen the accused taking his daughter.
He orally informed the matter to the village head. The place where
accused took his daughter is also residential place where there is
residence of Bimal Ghosh, Ashim Ghosh, Goda Ghosh, Nilim Ghosh etc
who are all alive. He, however, denied that a false case has been filed
against accused.

13. PW-3 is the victim girl, who deposed that she knows accused
whom she addressed as 'Fukka’. Incident occurred at about 8:30 pm on
the day of “Julan Puja” she went to nearby shop to purchase candle.
Then “Fukka” took her on his scooter to give her a ride. Though she
was initially reluctant but at the insistence of accused she agreed who
then took her to a vacant house belong to one Goda where he touched
her breast and put his hand inside her pant and gave a teeth bite on
her ear. Thereafter, he again took her back and dropped nearby her
house and left. Then she came home weeping and told the incident to
her mother. Thereafter, her father also reached home whom she
5

informed about the incident. Thereafter, her father filed the case after
three days. Police came and sent her for medical examination. Also
sent her to court for recording her statement. Ext.3 is her statement
and Ext.3 (1), 3(2), 3(3) are her signatures.

14. In her cross examination she stated that accused is a co-villager
and there is a good family relations. She could not remember the date
of incident but there were Pritom, Abhijit, Sivsankar, Mousumi, Moumita
along with her. She also stated that along with her Sivsankar and
Pritom also seated in the scooter but they were dropped nearby temple
but she was taken by “Fukka”. She denied that she was not taken by
accused to the vacant house on the side of the road belong to Goda.
She denied that accused did not touch her private part and did not bite
on her ear. She first told the incident to her mother and then her father.
There were several persons in her house but she did not disclose it to
others as well as police. No village head came to her house. His mother
and one Biki also visited the police station but she was not asked by
any question by police. She denied that accused did not took her in the
name of giving her a ride on his scooter.

15. PW-4 Subir Choudhury deposed that he knows informant and his
daughter as well as accused person. The incident occurred in the
month of August. He has a workshop near Chowalkhowa Bridge. One
day morning at about 10 to 10:30 am informant along with his wife and
daughter came to his shop and told him that two days ago on the day
of “Julan Puja” accused took their daughter in his scooter and
molested/subjected her sexual torture. Though the girl tried to shout
accused restrained her and then he again brought her nearby his
house and left. When he asked the victim girl, she told him that
accused touched her body.

16. In his cross examination he stated that his house is at a distance
of about 200 meter from the house of informant and there are
residence of Lakshmon Sutradhar, Sanjib Karmakar, Subodh Karmakar,
6

Sukumar Bashak, Hardhan Sarkar, Sekhor Sarkar etc nearby the house
of informant and they will know first if anything happened in the house
of informant. He denied the defence suggestion that he did not state
before police that informant, his wife and daughter visited his
workshop and told that on the day of “Julon Puja” accused took their
daughter in his scooter and subjected her sexual torture.

17.  PW-5 Biki Karmakar also deposed that he knows the informant,
victim and accused very well. The incident occurred about one year
back. On the day of “Julon Puja” when he returned home at about 8:30
pm and taking tea he heard the victim weeping. Then he came out to
see what had happened. Then there was exchange of words between
accused and mother. After five minutes accused left. The victim told
her mother weeping that accused took her into his scooter and touched
her breast.

18. In his cross examination he stated that he also accompanied the
informant to the police station to lodged the FIR. He stated that he had
not seen the incident but heard it.

19. PW-6 Rajesh Saha, who also deposed that informant is his
brother-in-law and the incident occurred on the day of “Julan Puja”. At
about 7:30 to 8 pm the victim went to shop for purchasing candle. On
that day informant told him over phone that accused took his daughter
on his scooter on the promise to give her a ride on his scooter while
she went to shop for purchasing candle and then in a lonely place,
touches her breast and belly. He also advised them to inform the
matter to the guardian of accused but on his return home he came to
know that, misbehaved the informant when he approached the
guardian of the accused.

20. In his cross examination he stated that police did not record his
statement. He denied that he deposed false evidence in favour of
victim.

21. PW-7 is the I/O Abhijit Baruah, who in his evidence deposed that
7

on 05.08.2017 having received an FIR from one Subhash Sutradhar the
officer-in-charge Barpeta police station registered a case being Barpeta
PS. case No.1350/17 u/s 6 of POCSO Act and entrusted him to
investigate the case. Accordingly, he visited the place of occurrence,
drew sketch map, recorded the statement of the witnesses including
the state of the alleged victim girl u/s 161 Cr.P.C. The victim was also
forwarded to court for recording her statement before Magistrate u/s
164 Cr.P.C. He also sent the victim girl for medical examination and
collected the medical report. Since he was transferred in the
meantime, he submitted the case diary to O/C and left but
subsequently, his successor S/I Rahul DO3+euri submitted the charge
sheet u/s 8 of POCSO Act.

22. In his cross examination he stated that as per FIR the incident
occurred on 03.08.2017 but FIR was lodged on 05.08.2017. On the
Same day he prepared prepared the sketch map, recorded the
statement of the victim girl and other witnesses on 05.08.2017. He
recorded the statement of the victim girl on 06.08.2017 and sent to
court for recording her statement on 08.08.2017. He also did not
record the statement of the mother of the victim girl and the woman
home guard who brought her to court. He did not seize the scooter of
the accused and he also did not forward Suho Dhar, Shivsankar,
Pritom, Abhijit, Mousumi etc who were present with the victim girl at
the relevant time to court for recording their statements u/s 164 Cr.PC.
The mother of the victim girl accompanied her to court while she was
sent for recording her statement before Magistrate. He did not record
the statement of neighbors namely - Barun Karmakar, Dibakar
Sutradhar, Sanjib Karmakar , Samar Karmakar, Bimal Ghosh, Ashim
Ghosh, Goda Ghosh, Nilima Ghosh and Nilima Basak etc.

23. He further deposed that PW-2 did not state before him that
accused took the victim girl on his scooter to the house of Goda. PW-3
the victim girl also did not state before him that accused had taken her
8

by force. He denied that he did not record the statement of the PW-5
and PW-6 in accordance with law.

24. Based on the evidence as discussed above, the learned counsel
appearing for the accused persons contended that the evidence of PW-
2 Subhash Sutradhar, PW-3 the victim girl (X) and PW-6 Rajesh Saha
are interested witness being the father, daughter and brother-in-law.
So, it is natural that father and his brother-in-law deposed evidence to
support the version of the victim (PW-3) as such no reliance can be
placed on their evidence. According to the learned counsel Sri
Radhikananda Das, PW-4 Subir Choudhuary and PW-5 Biki Karmakar
are independent witnesses but in their cross examination PW-5 stated
that he was not examined by police during investigation. So, his
evidence in court carries no evidentiary value.

25. It is further contended by the learned defence counsel that PW-1
the medical officer doctor Mamata Devi who examined the victim girl
on 05.08.2017 did not find any injury or violence mark on her person.
Doctor did not state that on examination she found any teeth bite
injuries on the ear of the victim as deposed by PW-3 the victim girl in
her deposition in court. So, the medical evidence negated the
prosecution case.

26. ‘It is the further argument of the learned defence counsel that
during investigation I/O did not examine the material witnesses
namely-the mother of the victim and Barun Karmakar, Dibakar
Karmakar, Sanjib Karmakar, Samar Karmakat etc who were next door
neighbors of the informant. Moreover, the colleagues of the victim girl
namely-Shivsankar, Pritam, Abhijit Mousumi etc were also not
examined by I/O as witness who were present with the victim girl at
the relevant time nor they were sent to court for recording their
statement before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Therefore, the learned
counsel vehemently contended that there is no credible evidence to
support the prosecution case. The sole version of the victim girl who is
9

minor cannot be relied on. There is no other witness who saw the
incident. Therefore, there is no direct evidence in the case except
version of the victim girl. It is contended that the victim girl being
extremely minor there is every probability of tutoring her by her
parents to depose false evidence against accused. The I/O caused
delay in recording her statement u/s 161 and 164 Cr.P.C. because the
incident occurred on 03.08.2017 but I/O recorded her statement on
06.08.2017 and sent her to court on 08.08.2017. During this
intervening period parents got sufficient time to influence the victim
girl to depose false evidence against accused.

27. The learned defence counsel Sri Radhikananda Das vehemently
contended that non-examination of the mother of the victim girl by the
prosecution to whom the victim girl narrated her ordeal first in point of
time raises serious doubt about the authenticity of the prosecution
case because mother is the best witness to tell the truth as to what has
been narrated to her by her daughter immediately after the incident.
But conspicuous absence as_ prosecution witness renders the
prosecution case highly doubtful. The learned defence counsel further
contended that there is contradiction in the evidence of PW-4 and PW-5
with that of their statement given before the I/O u/s 161 CrPC.
Therefore, their evidence is not at all credible and trustworthy. The
learned counsel further contended that during the course of evidence
of the prosecution witnesses it transpires that as per evidence of
informant the place of occurrence is the “Bhitha” of Goda and in her
statement before police u/s 161 Cr.P.C. the victim girl narrated the
place as to the side of the residence of Goda and in her 164 Cr.PC.
statement she stated that the place of occurrence is near the road on
the side of residence of Goda. In his evidence |/O stated that in the
sketch map (Ext.4) he has shown the place of occurrence as indicated
in “C” and mark “C” indicates shop of one Goda. Therefore, the learned
counsel contended that there is apparent contradiction regarding the
10

actual place of occurrence. Hence the learned counsel contends that
no reliance can be placed on the evidence of the prosecution on the
basis of such huge contradictory and inconsistent evidence.

28. Reliance was placed on behalf of the accused on the verdict of
the Hon’ble Supreme Court reported in 2002 Supreme Court cases Crl
780 Kalyan and others...appellant Vs. State of
U.P.....respondent wherein the division bench of Hon'ble Supreme
Court justice M.B. Shah and R.P. Sethi held in paragraph 19 that
keeping in view the facts and circumstances of the case, particularly
the variance between the FIR and the depositions made in the court,
the mention of gunshot injuries in the panchnama and their absence in
the FIR, the conflict between the statements of the eye witnesses and
the medical evidence and major contradictions and improvements in
the depositions of the eye witnesses, we are of the view that the
prosecution failed to prove their case against the appellants beyond all
shadow of doubt. The appellants are, therefore, held entitled to the
benefit of reasonable doubt. To form an opinion giving the appellant-
accused the benefit of doubt we have kept in mind the defence as
projected and suggested by them to the witnesses during their cross
examination.

29. Reliance was also placed on behalf of the accused on the verdict
of the Hon’ble Supreme Court reported in 2017 (2) Acquittal 110
(SC) in which the division bench of Hon'ble justice N.V. Ramana and
Prafulla Chandra Paut JJ held in paragraph 26 as follows:

“26”. Thus, applying our dispassionate judicial scrutiny to the facts and
circumstances of the case, we feel that the prosecution story is not
trustworthy to show the guilt of the accused. The material on record
portrays huge suspicion in the mind and the evidence adduced on
record is full of contradictions and basing on such evidence, it is not
Safe to fasten the liability on the accused. It appears to us that the
investigating agency ignored its paramount duty of bringing evidence
11

of guilt of the accused with probable evidence as admissible under law.
Rather, the investigating agency appears to have spent time in
creating two occurrence and submitting the same _ with the
circumstances. The prosecution failed to exonerate itself from the facts
of proving the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt.

30. Reliance was also placed on behalf of the accused on the verdict
of the Hon’ble Bombay High Court reported in 2003 CRL. L.J. 4718
(Bombay High Court (Patiram....appellant vs. State of
Maharashtra...respondent) the division bench held in paragraph 22
as follows:

“22”. As far as the evidence of Gopikabai (PW-4) is concerned, she has
stated in her chief that at the relevant time deceased Someshwar was
sitting on the swing of the house of the accused. Accused Patiram
Picked up an axe and then dealt a blow with the axe on the head of
deceased Someshwar. However, we cannot turn the Nelson's eye to the
fact that her statement under section 164 of the Code was recorded by
the Magistrate only after fifteen days of the incident. This witness is
also a resident of the same village and the wife of the complainant PW-
1. The investigating agency was well aware of these facts and ought to
have taken immediate steps to record the statement of this witness u/s
161 of the Code, since this witness Gopikabai was the eye witness to
the incident. However, there is no explanation forthcoming from the
investigating officer in this regard. Since the statement of this witness
was recorded after a considerable delay, which has not been explained
by the prosecution at all, it will be highly unsafe to rely on the evidence
of such witness, who admittedly was not on visiting terms with the
accused. In the facts and circumstances of the case, there is a serious
doubt about the authenticity in respect of the material particulars of
the prosecution case disclosed by this witness in her evidence and,
therefore, in our view, the testimony of Gopikabai (PW-4) is not truthful
and difficult to rely.
12

31. Reliance was also placed on behalf of the accused on the
verdict of the our Hon’ble Gauhati High Court reported in In 2011
(1) GLJ 662 (Rajesh Kumar..appellant vs. State of
Assam...... respondent) wherein the division bench of our Hon'ble
High Court held in paragraph 14 and 15 as under:

“14”, In the backdrop of the evidence adduced by the prosecution
witnesses as recited herein above, we are of the unhesitant opinion
that the charge against the accused-appellant has remained unproved.
Not only there is no eye witness in the instant case in support of the
charge, the evidence of PW-11 leading to discovery does not inspire
the confidence of this court. Not only this witness has contradicted
himself about the disclosure made by the accused-appellant to this
effect before the investigating officer, the persons before whom the
same is claimed to have been made have not supported the
prosecution in this regard. Not only the investigating officer has not
recorded the statement of the accused-appellant stated to have made
to this effect before him, the signature of the accused-appellant has
also not been obtained on the seizure list (Ext.6). It is intriguing as to
why the investigating officer had not enquired about the whereabouts
of Rupadhar Chabar and Rajesh Kurmi in course of the night during
which the incident had occurred. This is more so as two persons were
mercilessly hacked to death as would be evident from the multiple
incised wounds detectable on their bodies.

“15”. The investigating officer had been wholly callous and superficial
in his probe is apparent from the fact that not only he failed to forward
the seized articles to the Forensic Science Laboratory to ascertain as to
whether the same could in any way be correlated to the incident, he
did not even ensure that the seized articles were produced in court for
their identification by the witnesses of the prosecution. It passes our
comprehension as to how if really the accused-appellant had made a
statement in presence of a host of persons as claimed by him, none
13

had supported the said fact in course of the trial on oath. According to
us, the investigation has been wholly sloppy and shoddy, as a result
whereof, the actual assailants have made good their escape from the
clutches of law. Had the investigating officer been careful and
enterprising as was expected of him, in all probability the real offender
could have been apprehended and made to stand trial. In the true
sense of the term such indifferent and inept investigation has resulted
in a mockery of the process. A crime against society, therefore, would
go unpunished for such faulty and sketchy investigation. We are
therefore, of the opinion that stringent action should be taken against
the investigating officer, both departmentally and otherwise in
accordance with law.
32. In this context this court profitably refer a judgment of the
Hon’ble Delhi High Court In Raghav vs State on 24 May, 2018,
which is impregnated with the law rendered by Hon’ble Apex Court as
well as its own findings as under-
Analysis
“13. Various issues arise, for consideration, in the present case, which
may be addressed, seriatim.
Statement of the prosecutrix _M'
14. That conviction, for rape, can be sustained solely on the basis of
the statement of the prosecutrix is, by now, almost axiomatic. Several
judicial pronouncements, on the issue, were digested, by the Supreme
Court in paragraphs 9 to 14 of the report in Vijay @ Chinee vs State of
Madhya Pradesh, (2010) 8 SCC 191, which may be reproduced thus:

—Sole evidence of prosecutrix

9.In State of Maharashtra v. Chandraprakash Kewalchand Jain,

(1990) 1 SCC 550 this Court held that a woman, who is the victim of
sexual assault, is not an accomplice to the crime but is a victim of
another person's lust and, therefore, her evidence need not be tested
with the same amount of suspicion as that of an accomplice. The Court
14

observed as under: (SCC p. 559, para 16) —16. A prosecutrix of a sex
offence cannot be put on par with an accomplice. She is in fact a victim
of the crime. The Evidence Act nowhere says that her evidence cannot
be accepted unless it is corroborated in material particulars. She is
undoubtedly a competent witness under Section 118 and her evidence
must receive the same weight as is attached to an injured in cases of
physical violence. The same degree of care and caution must attach in
the evaluation of her evidence as in the case of an injured complainant
or witness and no more. What is necessary is that the court must be
alive to and conscious of the fact that it is dealing with the evidence of
a person who is interested in the outcome of the charge levelled by
her. If the court keeps this in mind and feels satisfied that it can act on
the evidence of the prosecutrix, there is no rule of law or practice
incorporated in the Evidence Act similar to Illustration (b) to Section
114 which requires it to look for corroboration. If for some reason the
court is hesitant to place implicit reliance on the testimony of the
prosecutrix it may look for evidence which may lend assurance to her
testimony short of corroboration required in the case of an accomplice.
The nature of evidence required to lend assurance to the testimony of
the prosecutrix must necessarily depend on the facts and
circumstances of each case. But if a prosecutrix is an adult and of full
understanding the court is entitled to base a conviction on her
evidence unless the same is shown to be infirm and not trustworthy. If
the totality of the circumstances appearing on the record of the case
disclose that the prosecutrix does not have a strong motive to falsely
involve the person charged, the court should ordinarily have no
hesitation in accepting her evidence. ||

10.In State of U.P. v. Pappu, (2005) 3 SCC 594 this Court held
that even in a case where it is shown that the girl is a girl of easy virtue
or a girl habituated to sexual intercourse, it may not be a ground to
absolve the accused from the charge of rape. It has to be established
that there
15

was consent by her for that particular occasion. Absence of injury on
the prosecutrix may not be a factor that leads the court to absolve the
accused. This Court further held that there can be conviction on the
sole testimony of the prosecutrix and in case, the court is not satisfied
with the version of the prosecutrix, it can seek other evidence, direct or
circumstantial, by which it may get assurance of her testimony. The
Court held as under: (SCC p. 597, para 12) —12. It is well settled that a
prosecutrix complaining of having been a victim of the offence of rape
is not an accomplice after the crime. There is no rule of law that her
testimony cannot be acted upon without corroboration in material
particulars. She stands at a higher pedestal than an injured witness. In
the latter case, there is injury on the physical form, while in the former
it is both physical as well as psychological and emotional. However, if
the court of facts finds it difficult to accept the version of the
prosecutrix on its face value, it may search for evidence, direct or
circumstantial, which would lend assurance to her testimony.
Assurance, short of corroboration as understood in the context of an
accomplice, would do. ||

11. In State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh, (1996) 2 SCC 384, this
Court held that in cases involving sexual harassment, molestation, etc.
the court is duty-bound to deal with such cases with utmost sensitivity.
Minor contradictions or insignificant discrepancies in the statement of a
prosecutrix should not be a ground for throwing out an otherwise
reliable prosecution case. Evidence of the victim of sexual assault is
enough for conviction and it does not require any corroboration unless
there are compelling reasons for seeking corroboration. The court may
look for some assurances of her statement to satisfy judicial
conscience. The statement of the prosecutrix is more reliable than that
of an injured witness as she is not an accomplice. The Court further
held that the delay in filing FIR for sexual offence may not be even
16

properly explained, but if found natural, the accused cannot be given
any benefit thereof. The Court observed as under: (SCC pp. 394-96 &
403, paras 8 & 21) —8. ... The court overlooked the situation in which a
poor helpless minor girl had found herself in the company of three
desperate young men who were threatening her and preventing her
from raising any alarm. Again, if the investigating officer did not
conduct the investigation properly or was negligent in not being able to
trace out the driver or the car, how can that become a ground to
discredit the testimony of the prosecutrix? The prosecutrix had no
control over the investigating agency and the negligence of an
investigating officer could not affect the credibility of the statement of
the prosecutrix. ... The courts must, while evaluating evidence, remain
alive to the fact that in a case of rape, no self-respecting woman would
come forward in a court just to make a humiliating statement against
her honour such as is involved in the commission of rape on her. In
cases involving sexual molestation, Supposed considerations which
have no material effect on the veracity of the prosecution case or even
discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix should not, unless the
discrepancies are such which are of fatal nature, be allowed to throw
out an otherwise reliable prosecution case. ... Seeking corroboration of
her statement before relying upon the same, as a rule, in such cases
amounts to adding insult to injury. ... Corroboration as a condition for
judicial reliance on the testimony of the prosecutrix is not a
requirement of law but a guidance of prudence under given
circumstances. ...
KKK

21.... The courts should examine the broader probabilities of a
case and not get swayed by minor contradictions or insignificant
discrepancies in the statement of the prosecutrix, which are not of a
fatal nature, to throw out an otherwise reliable prosecution case. If
evidence of the prosecutrix inspires confidence, it must be relied upon
17

without seeking corroboration of her statement in material particulars.
If for some reason the court finds it difficult to place implicit reliance on
her testimony, it may look for evidence which may lend assurance to
her testimony, short of corroboration required in the case of an
accomplice. The testimony of the prosecutrix must be appreciated in
the background of the entire case and the trial court must be alive to
its responsibility and be sensitive while dealing with cases involving
sexual molestations."

(emphasis in original)

12. In State of Orissa v. Thakara Besra, (2002) 9 SCC 86, this Court
held that rape is not mere physical assault, rather it often distracts (sic
destroys) the whole personality of the victim. The rapist degrades the
very soul of the helpless female and, therefore, the testimony of the
prosecutrix must be appreciated in the background of the entire case
and in such cases, non-examination even of other witnesses may not
be a serious infirmity in the prosecution case, particularly where the
witnesses had not seen the commission of the offence.

13. In State of H.P. v. Raghubir Singh, (1993) 2 SCC 622 this Court
held that there is no legal compulsion to look for any other evidence to
corroborate the evidence of the prosecutrix before recording an order
of conviction. Evidence has to be weighed and not counted. Conviction
can be recorded on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix, if her
evidence inspires confidence and there is absence of circumstances
which militate against her veracity. A similar view has been reiterated
by this Court in Wahid Khan v. State of M.P. [(2010) 2 SCC 9 : (2010) 1
SCC (Cri) 1208] placing reliance on an earlier judgment in Rameshwar
v. State of Rajasthan [AIR 1952 SC 54: 1952 Cri LJ 547].

14. Thus, the law that emerges on the issue is to the effect that the
statement of the prosecutrix, if found to be worthy of credence and
reliable, requires no corroboration. The court may convict the accused
on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix. (Emphasis supplied)
18

15. Vijay @ Chinee (supra) was followed, by another 2-judge
bench of the Supreme Court (speaking through Madan B. Lokur, J.), in
State of Haryana vs Basti Ram, (2013) 4 SCC 200. As in the present
case, the prosecutrix, in that case, who was less than 16 years of age,
alleged misbehaviour and, thereafter, rape, by her maternal uncle,
intermittently over a period of time. The High Court acquitted the
accused, finding the sole testimony of the prosecutrix to be insufficient
to indict him. The Supreme Court was critical of the approach of the
High Court, opining, thus, in paras 2 and 25 of the report:

—2. In our opinion, the High Court committed an error of law in not
considering the evidence put forward by the prosecutrix (who was less
than 16 years when she was raped) and ignoring the settled position in
law that if the sole testimony of the prosecutrix is credible, a conviction
can be based thereon without the need for any further corroboration.

KK KKK

25. The law on the issue whether a conviction can be based entirely
on the statement of a rape victim has been settled by this Court in
several decisions. A detailed discussion on this subject is to be found in
Vijay v. State of M.P., (2010) 8 SCC 191. After discussing the entire case
law, this Court concluded in para 14 of the Report as follows: (SCC p.
198) —14. Thus, the law that emerges on the issue is to the effect that
the statement of the prosecutrix, if found to be worthy of credence and
reliable, requires no corroboration. The court may convict the accused
on the sole testimony of the prosecutrix.

16. Profitable reference may also be made to one of the most
recent authorities on the point, State of Himachal Pradesh vs Sanjay
Kumar, (2017) 2 SCC 51. There, too, a 9 year old girl was ravaged by
her uncle. The Supreme Court took pointed note of this fact, at the very
beginning of its reasoning in the judgement, in para 21 of the report,
thus:

—Here is a case where charge of sexual assault on a girl aged nine
19

years is levelled. More pertinently, this is to be seen in the context that
the respondent, who is accused of the crime, is the uncle in relation.
Entire matter has to be examined in this perspective taking into
consideration the realities of life that prevail in Indian social milieu.

17. Para 31 of the report precisely sets out the legal position,
regarding the admissibility, and acceptability, of the evidence of a
victim of rape, and the advisability of seeking corroboration thereof,
before seeking to base conviction, thereon, in the following words:

—31. After thorough analysis of all relevant and attendant factors,
we are of the opinion that none of the grounds, on which the High
Court has cleared the respondent, has any merit. By now it is well
settled that the testimony of a victim in cases of sexual offences is vital
and unless there are compelling reasons which necessitate looking for
corroboration of a statement, the courts should find no difficulty to act
on the testimony of the victim of a sexual assault alone to convict the
accused. No doubt, her testimony has to inspire confidence. Seeking
corroboration to a statement before relying upon the same as a rule, in
such cases, would literally amount to adding insult to injury. The
deposition of the prosecutrix has, thus, to be taken as a whole.
Needless to reiterate that the victim of rape is not an accomplice and
her evidence can be acted upon without corroboration. She stands at a
higher pedestal than an injured witness does. If the court finds it
difficult to accept her version, it may seek corroboration from some
evidence which lends assurance to her version. To insist on
corroboration, except in the rarest of rare cases, is to equate one who
is a victim of the lust of another with an accomplice to a crime and
thereby insult womanhood. It would be adding insult to injury to tell a
woman that her claim of rape will not be believed unless it is
corroborated in material particulars, as in the case of an accomplice to
a crime. Why should the evidence of the girl or the woman who
complains of rape or sexual molestation be viewed with the aid of
20

spectacles fitted with lenses tinged with doubt, disbelief or suspicion?
The plea about lack of corroboration has no substance (See Bhupinder
Sharma v. State of H.P., (2003) 8 SCC 551). Notwithstanding this legal
position, in the instant case, we even find enough corroborative
material as well, which is discussed hereinabove.|| (Emphasis supplied
Having said that, we do have, with us, the statements of the
prosecutrix _M' herself, both under Section 164 of the Cr.P.C., as well as
during trial, which are consistent regarding the allegation of threat
having been held out, to her, by the appellant. The statements inspire
confidence, especially as they are supported by the depositions of
Seema (PW-3) and Gauri Shankar (PW-6).”
33. Now coming back to the facts of this case, it is evident that the
victim girl is very much consistent and confident in her statements
before Magistrate under section 164 CrP.C. as well as in her deposition
in court. She has been subjected to lengthy cross examination by
defence but failed to discredit her in material particulars. In her
evidence she categorically deposed that she knows accused whom she
addressed as 'Fukka'. The incident occurred at about 8:30 pm on the
day of “Julan Puja” when she went to nearby shop to purchase candle.
Then “Fukka” took her on his scooter to give her a ride. Though she
was initially reluctant but at the insistence of accused she agreed who
then took her to a vacant house belong to one Goda where he touched
her breast and put his hand inside her pant and gave a teeth bite on
her ear. Thereafter, he again took her back and dropped nearby her
house and left. Then she came home weeping and told the incident to
her mother. Thereafter, her father also reached home whom she
informed about the incident. Thereafter, her father filed the case after
three days. Police came and sent her for medical examination. Also
sent her to court for recording her statement. Ext.3 is her statement
and Ext.3(1), 3(2), 3(3) are her signatures.
34. Inher cross examination she stated that accused is a co-villager
21

and there is a good family relations. She could not remember the date
of incident but there were Pritom, Abhijit, Sivsankar, Mousumi, Moumita
along with her. She also stated that along with her Sivsankar and
Pritom also seated in the scooter but they were dropped nearby temple
but she was taken by “Fukka”. She denied that she was not taken by
accused to the vacant house on the side of the road belong to Goda.
She denied that accused did not touch her private part and did not bite
on her ear. She first told the incident to her mother and then her father.
There were several persons in her house but she did not disclose it to
others as well as police. No village head came to her house. His mother
and one Biki also visited the police station but she was not asked by
any question by police. She denied that accused did not took her in the
name of giving her a ride on his scooter.

35. In her statement before Magistrate under section 164 CrPC she
reiterated the same fact baring few omission which is bound to occur in
a criminal case more so when the victim being a minor girl of 7 and
half years old. She is not expected to recollect all the details in
cinematographic fashion. Her deposition cannot be looked in the
perspective of the evidence of an adult person. As it appears her
evidence inspires confidence in the mind of the court because defence
failed to bring any such circumstance to show that accused has no
visiting terms with the house of the victim girl or has any personal
grudge and enmity. In her evidence the victim girl stated that they
have good relation with the house of accused. Had there been no such
ill intention accused has no occasion to take her to the “Vitha” at about
8.30 to 9 p.m. Accused did the offence with criminal intent. Non
examination of the other two children who were also taken by accused
along with the girl in his scooter and dropped them midway no way
affects the merit of the prosecution case. Non examination of the
mother of the victim girl also does not weaken the prosecution case as
the evidence of the victim girl is found credible and trustworthy.
22

Otherwise what benefit a minor girl will derive by falsely implicating
the accused.

36. It is to be noted that the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offence Act, 2012 was annexed by Parliament with the objective of
securing that the tender age of children are not abused and their
childhood and youth are protected against exploitation and they are
given facilities to develop in a healthy manner and in conditions of
freedom and dignity.

37. In this backdrop, reading the definition of Section 7 of the POCSO
Act would be useful which reads as under:

Section 7. sexual assault- “Whoever, with sexual intent
touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the
child touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any
other person, or does any other act with sexual intent which involves
physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault”
38. The above being the evidence of the witnesses, this court has
come to unerring findings that accused evidently invaded the privacy
and sexuality of the victim girl and attempts to violate her dignity as a
person by touching her breast and private part by taking her to the
“Vitha” at odd hours. Even though she is a minor girl, she is very much
entitled to protection of her person from aggression of intruders.
Doctor not finding any teeth bite mark in the ear as deposed by the
victim girl is no ground to discard her evidence as there may not be
any mark if the teeth bite was mild. So, this court comes to definite
finding that accused undoubtedly committed the offence as define u/s
7 of POCSO Act punishable u/s 8 of POCSO Act. Accordingly, accused is
found guilty for the offence u/s 8 of POCSO Act and he is convicted
accordingly.

39. It is to be noted that the then Hon'ble Special Judge, Barpeta
vide order dated 29.01.2018 framed charge u/s 6 of POCSO Act. No
separate charge under section 8 of POCSO Act was framed. However,
23

since the punishment prescribed under section 8 of POCSO Act is
lesser than the punishment prescribed under section 6 of POCSO Act so
there is no legal impediment in convicting the accused under section 8
of POCSO Act though no separate charge under section 8 was framed.
Therefore, accused is convicted under section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012.

40. | have considered the provision of section 360 Cr.P.C. but after
due consideration of the attending facts and circumstances of the case
and the age of the accused the nature of the offences committed, this
court is not inclined to extend the benefit of Probation of Offenders Act

in favour of accused.

SENTENCE HEARING

41. | have heard the accused person on the point of sentence as
provided u/s 235(2) Cr.P.C. It is submitted that accused person hails
from very poor strata of society. He is very young 30 years old
unmarried. He was having his old ailing mother to maintain. So, in the
event he is put behind bar his innocent family members would suffer a
lot. Hence, accused pleaded clemency.

42. Heaving considered all the attending facts and circumstances
and the extenuating and mitigating circumstances of the case and the
punishment prescribed in section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 accused is
convicted and sentenced to undergo Rigorous imprisonment for a term
of 3 years (three years) and fine of Rs.1000/- (one thousand) i/d S/I for
3 three months.

43. The period of detention, if any, undergone by accused during the
course of investigation, enquiry or trial shall be set off against the term
of imprisonment as provided u/s 428 Cr.P.C.

44. Let a copy of the judgment be furnished to accused person free
of cost as provided in section 363 Cr.P.C.

45. Let copy of the judgment be forwarded to the learned District
24

Magistrate, Barpeta as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.

46. Let the case record be consigned to record room after
completing the formalities.

47. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 13" day of
May 2019.

Dictated & corrected my me

Sd/- Sd/-
(Sri C.B. Gogoi) (Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta
25

APPENDIX
1. The prosecution has examined the following 7 nos. of witnesses :-

PW-1 = is doctor Mamata Devi, the M/O.

PW-2 = is Sri Subhash Sutradhar, the informant.
PW-3 = _ is the victim girl (X).

PW-4 = _ is Subir Choudhury.

PW-5 = _ is Biki Karmakar.

PW-6 = _ is Rajesh Saha.

PW-7 = is Abhijit Baruah, the I/O.

2. The prosecution has exhibited following document:-

Ext.1 = is the medical report.

Ext. 1(1)= is the signatures of doctor Mamata Devi.
Ext.1(2)= is the signature of doctor Manoj Kumar Singha.
Ext.2 = is ejahar.

Ext.2(1) = is the signature of informant Subhah Sutradhar.
Ext.3= is the statement of the victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext.3(1), 3(2) & 3(3) = are the signature of victim (X).
Ext.3(4)= is the signature of lady H.G. Arati Das.

Ext.4 = is the sketch map.

Ext.4(1) = is the signature of I/O Abhijit Kumar Baruah.
Ext.5= is the charge sheet.

Ext.5(1)= is the signature of Rahul Deuri.

Sd/-

(Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
