IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE :::::::: BILASIPARA

Present:- Shri J. Borah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Bilasipara

Special (POCSO) Case No- 08 of 2019
u/s 120(B) Indian Penal Code &
u/s 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act

Date of framing charge

Date of recording evidence

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Advocates Appeared:

For the State of Assam

For the defence

State of Assam
-Vs-

1. Habibar Rahman @Habi

2. Alomara Bibi
eseeees accused persons

i 08-05-2019

- 09-08-2019
09-09-2019
he 20-09-2019

= 20-09-2019

:- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Ld. Addl. P.P

for the State of Assam

:- Smti Mehnaz Begum,

Ld. Advocate for the defence.

JUDGMENT

1. This case is u/s 120(B) Indian Penal Code and u/s 4 of Protection of

Children from Sexual Offences Act. So, the name of the victim is not

mentioned and she is, hereinafter, referred to as ‘x’.

Contd. to page no.-2
[2]

2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that Smti Bakul Bala Barman lodged
an ejahar with the Bilasipara police station on 03-08-2018 informing that ‘x’
is niece of the informant. On 03-08-2018 at 04.00 P.M, the informant with
her niece ‘x’ went to the house of Siddiqul Hussain. The informant kept her
niece at the house of Siddique Hussain and she left for village Surjyakhata
Pt. I. Taking the advantage of absence of the informant, the accused
committed sexual intercourse with her.

So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against the
accused.
3. The Bilasipara police station received the ejahar and registered as
Bilasipara police station case no. 916/2018 u/s 120(B)/376 Indian Penal
Code and section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act. The
case was investigated and having found prima facie u/s 120(B)/376 Indian
Penal Code and section 4 of Protection of children from Sexual Offences Act
against the accused Habibar Rahman @ Habi and 120(B)/114 I.P.C against
the accused Alomara Bibi @ Babli, laid the charge sheet before the court for
trial.
4. The accused Habibar Rahman @ Habi and Alomara Bibi, hereinafter
called the accused persons, appeared in this court. Copy was furnished to
the accused persons. Charge was framed u/s 120(B) of Indian Penal Code,
I.P.C in short, against the accused Alomara Bibi and u/s 4 of Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act against the accused Habibar Rahman @
Habi. The Charges were read over and explained to the accused persons to
which they pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
5. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against the
accused persons, examined 4 (four) witnesses, namely-

1. Smti. Bakul Bala Barman P.W-1

2. ‘x’/ the victim P.W-2
3. Smti. Bhanumati Paul P.W-3
4. Smti. Anita Nath P.W-4
6. The accused persons were examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C and _ their

statements were recorded where they denied all allegations levelled against
them in the evidence adduced by the prosecution and also declined to
adduce evidence in defence.

7. Heard argument for both sides.

Contd. to page no.-3
[3]

8. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

i. Whether accused Habibar Rahman @ Habi on 03-08-2018 at about
04.00 P.M at Bilasipara W/N-04 under Bilasipara police station,
committed penetrative sexual assault on ‘x’, a minor girl and
thereby committed offence u/s 4 of POCSO Act?

ii. Whether accused Alomara Bibi on 03-08-2018 at about 04.00 P.M
at Bilasipara W/N-04 under Bilasipara police station, agreed with
accused Habibar Rahman @ Habi to do penetrative sexual assault
on ‘x’, a minor girl by accused Habibar Rahman @ Habi and
hatched conspiracy to commit the said offence and thereby
committed offence u/s 120(B) I.P.C?

DECISION AND REASONS THERE OF
9. In this prosecution case P.W-1 Smti. Bakul Bala Barman is the
informant, P.W-3 Smti. Bhanumati Paul and P.W-4 Smti. Anita Nath are
independent witnesses. P.W-2 ‘x’ is the alleged victim.
10. Since P.W-1 Smti Bakul Bala Barman is the informant and P.W-2 ‘x’ is
the alleged victim, so they are the prime witnesses in this case. Let’s see the
evidence of this witnesses at first.

P.W-1 Smti. Bakul Bala Barman has stated in her evidence that she is
the informant in this case. She along with her niece ‘x’ went to the house of
accused ‘Babli’ (Alomara Bibi). Babli is one of the members of Asha group.
She sought for money from Babli. But the accused Babli wanted to assault
her. She was angry with the accused and out of wrath she lodged the ejahar
against the accused, Ext-1 is the ejahar, Ext-1(1) is her signature.

In her cross P.W-1 has stated that she asked the ejahar writer to
write against the accused Babli (Alomara Bibi). The ejahar was not read over
to her.

P.W-2 ‘x’ has stated in her evidence that she knows the informant
Bakul Bala Nath and the accused Babli (Alomara Bibi). There was altercation
between the informant Bakul Bala Nath and the accused Babli (Alomara
Bibi). The informant lodged ejahar against the accused persons. Accused
Habibar Rahman did not commit sexual intercourse on her. She gave her
statement before the Magistrate, Ext-2 is the said statement and Ext-2(1)(2)

Contd. to page no.-4
[4]

are her signatures. The police seized some papers, she signed in the seizure
list, Ext-3 is the said seizure list and Ext-3(1) is her signature.

In cross examination P.W-2 has stated that she gave her statement
Ext-2 as taught by her aunt, the informant.

11. -Thus, careful scrutiny of evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-2 shows that
P.W-1 being informant has adduced evidence not incriminating the accused
persons. She has only stated that she had altercation with Alomara Bibi and
when the accused Alomara Bibi wanted to assault her physically, she was
angry with the accused and out of such wrath she lodged the ejahar Ext-1
against the accused. P.W-1 has plainly stated in her evidence that she
lodged the ejahar against the accused Babli, not against the other accused.
She does not know the other accused. There is no evidence adduced by
P.W-1 that the accused Habibar Rahman committed sexual intercourse on
‘x’. But in the ejahar P.W-1 scribed that the accused Habibar Rahman
committed sexual intercourse on ‘x’. So, there is distinct gulf between the
previous statement of P.W-1 and her evidence adduced before this court.
Such contradiction may affect the prosecution case.

12. The evidence of P.W-2 ‘x’ shows that there is not a single word
uttered by her that the accused committed sexual intercourse on her. She
knew that there was altercation between the accused Babli (Alomara Bibi)
and the informant. Except this she knows nothing. She sternly denied to
commit rape on her by the accused.

13. Thus, the evidence of P.W-1 and P.W-2 is not inculpatory against the
accused persons. There is no evidence adduced by P.W-1 and P.W-2 that the
accused Babli (Alomara Bibi) conspired anything or the accused Habibar
Rahman committed sexual intercourse on ‘x’.

14. Now let's see the evidence of other witnesses.

P.W-3 Smti. Bhanumati Paul has stated in her evidence that she
knows the informant. But she does not know the accused persons. She
knows nothing about the occurrence.

Cross examination of P.W-3 was declined by the defence.

15. P.W-4 Anita Nath has stated in her evidence that she knows the
informant and the accused Babli (Alomara Bibi). The accused Babli was one

of the members of self-help group. The informant Bakul Bala Barman sought

Contd. to page no.-5
[5]

money from the accused Babli and at such there was altercation between
two. Except this she knew nothing.
16. — Thus, scrutiny of evidence of P.W-3 and P.W-4 shows that both are
independent witnesses. But both of them have adduced evidence not
incriminating the accused persons. P.W-3 has clearly stated that she knows
nothing about the occurrence. P.W-4 has stated that there was altercation
between the informant and the accused Babli. There is no evidence adduced
by P.W-3 and P.W-4 that the accused Habibar Rahman committed sexual
intercourse on ‘x’. The evidence of P.W-3 and P.W-4 has not implicated the
accused.
17. Taking all into consideration, it leads to conclusion that the
prosecution evidence is not sufficient and reliable to prove the offences as
alleged against the accused persons. The prosecution evidence is found
dearth of merit.
18. The prosecution has failed to prove it’s case u/s 120(B) I.P.C and
section 4 of POCSO Act against the accused persons beyond all reasonable
doubt.
19. Held, accused Habibar Rahman not guilty u/s 4 of POCSO Act and
accused Alomara Bibi not guilty u/s 120(B) I.P.C.
20. Accordingly, the accused persons are acquitted and set at liberty.

Bail bonds of accused persons stand cancelled and their bailor(s) is
discharged from all liabilities.

The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal by this court on this 20" day of
September, 2019 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Transcribed & typed by,
S. Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.

Contd. to page no.-6
[6]

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

P.W-1 Smti. Bakul Bala Barman
P.W-2 ‘x’/ the victim

P.W-3 Smti. Bhanumati Paul
P.W-4 Smti. Anita Nath

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS:-
Ext-1 Ejahar,
Ext-2 Statement of ‘x’ recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C,

Ext-3 Seizure list.

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT WITNESS - NIL
COURT EXHIBITS fs NIL

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
