sah

Dhemaji.

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: ShriS. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,

 

Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 8 (DH)/ 2018.

U/S 376/511 R/W Sec.8 of POCSO Act,

The State of Assam

- Versus —

ShriArup Gogoi i. i‘

S/O Suren Gogoi
R/O Ratanpur
P.S. Dhemaji,
Dist.- Dhemaji.

Appearance:
Shri A. Fogla,
Public Prosecutor

Shri P.C Boruah, Advocate

Date of prosecution evidence

Date of argument

Date of Judgment

Accused Person

clwitlala For the State

abodes For the Accused

: 17-09-2018

: 17-09-2018

: 18-09-2018.

 
JUDGMENT

 

Z The prosecution case in brief is that on 11-12-2017
complainant- Hiren Konwar lodged an ejahar with Dhemaji Police Station
alleging interalia that on that day i,e. 11-12-2017 while his minor daughter-
Miss ‘X’ aged about 13 years was alone at her home, the accused-Arup
Gogoi entered into his house and attempted to commit rape on her. His
daughter raised hue and Cry and tried to flee away from the clutch of the
accused and in that process his daughter sustained injury on her right hand.
Then the accused fled away.

Z On receipt of the ejahar, police registered a case and started
investigation and on completion of investigation Police submitted Charge-
sheet against the accused-Minj Das u/s 448/376 of IPC R/W section 8 of the
POCSO Act.

3. On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charges u/s 448/376 IPC R/W Sec. 8 of POCSO Act
and read-over and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The
prosecution, in order to prove its Case, examined three witnesses. After
Closure of the prosecution evidence statement of the accused was recorded
u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. However, the defence adduced
no evidence in support of his defence.

4.Point for determination :

(1) That, on 11-12-2017 at about 3 PM at Village-Aradhal under
Dhemaji Police Station, you attempted to commit rape on Miss ‘Xx’, a
minor girl aged about 13 years inside her dwelling house and thereby
you Committed an offence punishable u/s 376/511 of IPC.

 
(2) That, on the same day, time and place you committed sexual
assault on Miss ‘X’, a minor girl aged about 13 years inside her
dwelling house and thereby you committed an offence punishable u/s
8 of POCSO Act.

5 I have gone through the evidence on record and heard
arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof
— ESE REGSONS TNEreor

6. PW11 Hiren Konwer stated that he is the complainant. He knows
accused. Victim is his daughter. The incident took place in the month of
December 2017. Accused is known to him. On the date of occurrence
accused visited their house. His daughter was reading in her study room. All
of a sudden accused entered in to her room and misbehaved her. Then she
came out of the house and came to the house of her neighbor. They were
away from home as they attended to their duties as service holder. She
disclosed the incident to them. He lodged complaint. However, later on the
accused's family members came to them and told them that he regretted his
action and also stated that he had no ill intention, he just wanted to enquire
about her daughter's wellbeing. Thereafter they sat together and decided not
to proceed in this case. Ext.1 is ejahar. Ext.1(1) is his signature.

In cross examination PW1 stated that he has no objection if the
accused is acquitted in this case.
7. PW2 is the victim Miss ‘x’, Complainant is her father. She
knows the accused. The incident took place in the month of December 2017.
Accused is known to her parents. On the date of occurrence accused visited
their house. She was reading in her study room. All of a sudden accused
entered in to her room and misbehaved her. Then she came out of the house
and came to the house of her neighbor. Her parents were away from home
as they attended to their duties as service holder. She disclosed the incident

 
to her parents. Her parents lodged complaint. However, later on the accused
came to her parents and he regretted his action and also stated that he had
no ill intention, he just wanted to enquire about her wellbeing.

In cross-examination PW2 stated that her parents had a

discussion with the accused and decided not to proceed in this case. She has
nothing to say if her father is not willing to proceed against the accused in
this case.
8. PW3 Smti Ranu Konwar stated that she is the complainant. She
knows accused. Victim is her daughter. The incident took place in the month
of December 2017. Accused is known to her. On the date of occurrence
accused visited their house. Her daughter was reading in her study room. All
of a sudden accused entered in to her room and misbehaved her. Then she
came out of the house and came to the house of her neighbor. They were
away from home as they attended to their duties as service holder, She
disclosed the incident to them. Her husband lodged complaint. However,
later on the accused’s family members came to them and told them that he
regretted his action and also stated that he had no ill intention, he just
wanted to enquire about her daughter’s wellbeing. Thereafter, they sat
together and decided not to proceed in this case.

In cross-examination, she stated that she has no objection if the
accused is acquitted in this case.

Appreciation of evidence :

9, From the discussion of the evidence on record, it appears that
in this case the victim and her parents were examined as P.W-1, PW2 and
PW3 respectively. PW1 is the father of the Victim Miss ‘x’ and PWs- 2 is the
victim girl . PW3 is the mother of the victim. In their evidence all the three
vital witnesses stated that the accused entered into the room of the Victim
and misbehaved her. Then the victim came out of her house and went to her

 
neighbour's house. Victim disclosed the incident to her Parents. Then PW1
lodged the complaint. However, later on the accused’s family members came
to them and told them that he regretted his action and also stated that he
had no ill intention, he just wanted to enquire about her daughter's
wellbeing. Thereafter, they sat together and decided not to proceed in this
Case. In cross-examination all the 3 vital witnesses have stated that they
have no objection if the accused is acquitted in this case. Prosecution side
declined to examine the remaining witnesses on the ground that examination
of other witnesses will not improve the prosecution case at all.

10. On consideration of the evidence on record, I find that there is
no incriminating evidence to rope the accused with the commission of the
alleged offences. This is a case of no evidence. I find that the prosecution
has totally failed to prove the charges u/s 376/511 of IPC read with Sec.- 8 of
the POCSO Act against the accused.

11. In view of the above, I find the accused-Arup Gogoi not guilty
u/S 376/511 of the I.P.C. read with Section-8 of POCSO Act. Accordingly, he
Is acquitted of the charges leveled against him. Set him at liberty forthwith.

2. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.
iS. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 18t
day of September/ 2018.

&
(3 pl
( S. Das )
Speséal Judige,
Otterediji.

 
