IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON

Sess. Spl. Case No.27/2015
U/S 354(A) of IPC, read with Section 12 of POCSO Act.

Present : Md. M. Ahmed,
Sessions Judge,
Morigaon.

State of Assam

Vs

Sri Tapan Hira.

Appearance for the Parties

Advocate for the State :- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.
Advocate for the accused _ :- Mr. U. C. Roy, Advocate,
Date of recording evidence :-15.02.2016.

Date of Argument :-15.02.2016.

Date of Judgment :-01.03.2016.

JUDGMENT

Filing of an F.I.R. by one Bhogali Hira of village Udmari under Jagiroad
P.S. in the district of Morigaon with the then O/C Jagiroad P.S. on 19.07.2015
has given rise to this prosecution case. In this F.I.R., it is alleged by the
informant that his son, the accused by the name Tapan Hira was a person of
bad character, he was habitual drunker, his wife is no more in this world and
he has one daughter namely, Miss — X (real name is concealed to save the
victim from infamy and ignominy), the victim of the instant case then aged
about 14 years. It is alleged by the prosecution that the present accused being
the father did not take care of his own daughter and he tried to have forcible
sex with his own daughter on 18.07.2015 at around 7 P.M. At that time the

accused being heavily drunk came to his house and tried to commit rape upon
his own daughter under the influence of liquor. Then, the victim raised hue and
cry and the informant on hearing hue and cry of the victim went there and
other village people also assembled at the spot and they all saved the victim
from the clutches of the accused. Then, the victim narrated the entire matter
before the informant and then the informant came to learn that last since three
months the accused repeatedly tried to do such act but failed in his attempts
to have forcible sex with her and each time his design was frustrated by the
victim.

On receipt of this F.I.R., O/C Jagiroad P.S. registered a case vide
Jagiroad P.S. Case No.298/15, U/s 376/511 IPC, read with Section 12 of
POCSO Act against the afore-named accused and investigation was set in

motion.

During the course of investigation, the I.0. visited the place of
occurrence, arrested the accused, seized one school leaving certificate of the
victim, subjected the victim to medical examination, examined the materials
witnesses and uponconclusion of investigation, the I.O. having found sufficient
incriminating materials submitted the charge-sheet against the afore-named
accused for alleged commission of offences U/s 354 (A) IPC, read with Section
12 of POCSO Act. At the time of filing charge-sheet, the accused was
languishing in jail and subsequently, he got court bail.Copies of relevant
documents were furnished to him. Thereafter, this Court having heard learned
Counsel of both sides and basing upon the materials on record, framed charge
U/s 354 (A) IPC, read with Section 12 of POCSO Act and read over and
explained the particulars of charge to the accused to which he absurd guilty

and claimed for tried.

2. Point for determination :

(i) In the instant case, it is to be determined that if the present accused
on the eventful day i.e. on 18.07.2015 at around 7.00 P.M. at village
Udmari under Jagiroad P.S. in the district of Morigaon, embraced the
victim Miss — X, a minor girl, his own daughter and did physical

contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit sexual
overtures and at the same time he committed lascivious sexual

assault on the victim by forcibly molested her sexually.

3. The prosecution in this case has examined its most vital witness namely,
PW-1, the informant and PW-2 the victim. But none of themhave supported
the prosecution case on material aspects. As such, examination of the
accused U/s 313 Cr.P.C. was found to be redundant and was dispensed for

ends of justice. The accused declined to adduce defence evidence.

4. I have heard argument so advanced by Ld. Counsel of both sides.

Considering the evidence on record, I have come to the following decisions.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

5. In this case it is alleged by the prosecution that on the eventful night
the afore-named accused embraced the victim, his own daughter with ill-
intention and also committed lascivious sexual assault by forcibly molesting her

sexually.

6. The prosecution in this case examined the said victim as PW-2. She in
her evidence remained silent if the accused did anything as alleged by the
prosecution. She has simply stated in her evidence that her father (the accused)
used to create disturbance in the house after consuming liquor and he used to
abuse her and also assault her and she reported this matter to her grand-

mother and accordingly, a case was filed against her father.

Upon critical analysis of the evidence of PW-2, it appears that though
the prosecution has claimed that the accused cast an evil eye upon his own
daughter and tried to sexually assault her, but her evidence negates this
allegation. She simply stated in her evidence that her father used to create
disturbance in the house under the influence of liquor and he has badmouthed

her and also used to assault her.

7. PW-1, the informant also deposed likewise. According to him, the

accused is his own son. The occurrence took place around 5/6 months ago. The
accused is a habitual drunker and he used to create disturbance by consuming
liquor. The wife of the accused had died. After death of his wife, the accused
did not take care of his children. This witness has further stated that the victim
is his own daughter and as the accused did not take proper care of the children
including the victim, PW-1 filed Ext.1 the ejahar. However, he has no knowledge

regarding the contents of the ejahar, as it is scribed by other person.

From the evidence of PW-1, it is found that he categorically stated that
he filed the ejahar, as the accused create disturbance under the influence of

liquor.

8. Thus, from the evidence available in record, it transpires that both the
materials witnesses of the prosecution have refused to support the prosecution
case as regard the fact that the accused had an evil eye upon his own daughter.
Rather from the evidence available on record has simply suggest that the
accused was a habitual drunker and he used to create disturbance after
consuming liquor and his wife is no more in this world. He had little children,
however, he failed to take proper care of them and used to ill-treat his own

children and that was the principal reason for filing this case.

9. That being the position, this Court is of opinion that the prosecution has

failed to establish the case beyond all reasonable doubt. In the result, the
accused is not found guilty for the offences punishable U/s 354(A) IPC, read
with Section 12 of POCSO Act and as such, he is acquitted and set at liberty.

Judgment delivered in the open Court on this 1% day of March, 2016

under my hand and seal.

Dictated & corrected by me Sessions Judge

Morigaon.
Oo FIN WN SS |D

APPENDIX

. Prosecution witness
. PW-1 :- Sri Bhogali Hira.

PW-2 :- Sri Sagarika Hira.

. Defence witness : Nil.
. Prosecution Exhibit :

. Ext.1, the ejahar.

. Defence exhibits :- Nil.

Sessions Judge,

Morigaon.
