Page 1 of 9

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 CrP-C

Date*of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

32 OF 2017
(Under Section 376/109/313 read with
section 4 of the POCSO Act, arising out
of G.R. Case No. 2415 of 2017)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“Vs-

1. Sri Bikash Basfor
Son of Amrit Basfor
Resident of Horijan Colony,
New Amolapatty road,
Police Station — Tezpur
Dist:- Sonitpur,Assam

2. Smti Manju Basfor
Wife.of Amrit Basfor
Resident of Horijan Colony,
New Amolapatty road,
Police Station — Tezpur
Dist:- Sonitpur,Assam

20-02-2018
22-05-2018, 18-07-2018

& 31-07-2018.

31-07-2018.

31-07-2018.
31-07-2018.

Mr. Munin Ch. Baruah
Special Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Smti Dulumoni Sinha, Advocate.

 
Page 2 of 9

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Smti Manju Basfor is put for trial for the allegation
of charge u/s 376/313 read with section 109 of the IPC and accused Sri Bikash
Basfor is put for trial for allegation of charge under Section 376/313 of IPC read
with section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR in brief is that informant’s 16
years old minor daughter was in love with Bikash Basfor for last.one year.
Thereafter, accused and informant’s minor daughter indulged in sexual
activities regularly, as a result, she became pregnant. When “shes became
pregnant the mother of the accused Bikash Basfor without.informing the
informant secretly taken her to a place and aborted.herpregnancy. Thereafter,
after few days she returned to him. In the aforesaid ‘activities, parents of the
accused were also involved. When they enquired about the matter they agreed
to pay compensation to informant’s daughter but stated that they will not
accept the informant’s daughter as a bride. Hence, this prosecution case. The
ejahar was filed by complainantSmti Rina Basfor before the O/C Tezpur Police
station on 29-06-2017.

3. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the Officer-In-Charge of Tezpur
Police Station registered\a case being Tezpur P.S. Case No. 1257/17 u/s
376/313/34 of the IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act. After completion of
usual investigation, the O/C Tezpur Police Station filed charge sheet under

section 376/313/34 of the IPC against the accused persons.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing both
parties, charge u/s 376/313 read with section 109 of the IPC against the
accused Smti Manju Basfor and also framed charge u/s 376 /313 of IPC read
with section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused Sri Bikash Basfor and
particulars of the charge was read over, explained to the accused to which they

pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case, prosecution has examined two numbers of
witnesses i.e. the complainant and the victim. After examination of the victim,

learned counsel for the accused submitted to close the evidence on the ground

 
Page 3 of 9

that the statement of the complainant as well as the victim could not reveal any
materials of any of the alleged offence against any of the accused and it is futile
to examine the other witnesses. I have heard the learned Special Public
Prosecutor. On perusal of the statement of the witnesses recorded so far it
arrived that neither statement of complainant nor the victim could reveal any
materials against any of the accused. With the evidence of the aforesaid
witnesses I think, even if examined the other witnesses, prosecution case
would not develop. Speedy trial is the right of the accused persons. Considering
the materials and facts as narrated above, the prosecution evidencesis closed.
Statement of the accused persons is recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.CAll\the.allegations
made against the accused and the evidence appears against the accused are
put before them for their explanation where the denied. the allegation and

declined to adduce defence evidence.

6. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels of both
sides.
7. The point for decision in this case is*that -

1. Whether the accused Manju Basfor prior to 29-06-
2017 at»Harijan Colony under Tezpur Police station
committed the offence of rape and that she abetted her
son Bikash Basfor , in the commission of the said offence
of rape which was committed in connection with
abetment as a result Miss Neha  Basfor became
pregnant of 7 months and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 376 of IPC read with section
109 of the IPC?

2. Secondly, the accused Manju Basfor prior to 29-
06-2017 at Nagaon voluntarily caused Miss Neha Basfor
then being with child to miscarry without her consent
and such miscarriage was not being caused by you in
good faith for the purpose of saving the life of the said
Neha Basfor in the commission of the said offence of

rape which was committed in connection with abetment

 
Page 4 of 9

and thereby committed an offence punishable under
section 313 of IPC r/w 109 of IPC and within my

cognizance ?

3. Whether the accused Bikash Basfor prior to 29-06-
2017 at Harijan Colony under Tezpur Police station
committed penetrative sexual assault on Miss Neha
Basfor (16 years) as a result she became pregnant of 7
months and thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 376 of IPC read with section 4 of the
POSCO Act ?

4, Whether the accused Bikash Basfor prior to 29-06-
2017 at Nagaon voluntarily.caused Miss Neha Basfor
then being with child to miscarry without her consent
and such miscarriage’ was_not being caused by you in
good faith for the purpose of saving the life of the said
Neha _ Basfor, and~thereby committed an_ offence
punishable under section 313 of IPC?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive. at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on
record.
9. PW.1 Smti Rina Basfor stated that the accused persons are her co-

villagers. Victim is her daughter. At the relevant time her victim daughter was
aged about 16 years. The incident took place about one year ago. She was not
aware that her daughter had love affairs with accused Bikash Basfor. She came
to know from the villagers that accused Bikash Basfor at first taken her
daughter to Dholaibil hospital for abortion as she became pregnant from the
side of Bikash Basfor. But the doctor of Dholaibil hospital refused to do it.
Thereafter, accused Manju Basfor, mother of Bikash Basfor called her daughter
to her house and assaulted her. Thereafter, Manju Basfor, mother of the
accused Bikash taken her daughter to Nagaon for abortion. At that time her

daughter was 7 months pregnant. At Nagaon her daugther was aborted

 
Page 5 of 9

through the doctor by expensing Rs. 25,000/- . It is also came to know that her
daughter was admitted in the hospital for two days after the abortion.
Thereafter, the people of their village convened a meeting and asked the
accused to marry her daughter. But the accused Bikash did not marry her
daughter. Thereafter, she has lodged the ejahar. Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext.
1(1) is his signature. The ejahar was written by a scribe who is her nieghbour
at her instruction. Police recorded her statement and also recorded the
statement of her daughter and other accused. Police sent her daughter for
medical examination. Then her statement was recorded through» learned
Magistrate. At the time of recording her statement she waS»present. Ext. 2 is
the statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. of her daughter wherexshe put ‘signature Ext.
2(1) as mother.

In cross-examination, she admitted that the ejahar was written by her
villagers and asked her to put signature thereon. Thereafter she put her
signature therein. She has not gone through the ejahar as she is illiterate. At
the relevant time the actual age of her daughter was 18 years but in the ejahar
the age of her daughter was written as 16 years. As per instruction of villagers,
she has lodged the ejahar.. Hervictim daughter never informed her about the
incident. Therefore, she does not know actually what happened. On the other
days, she has deposed what instructed by the villagers. Today she has deposed

truly. Actually;,.no such incident took place.

10. «PW 2, Miss X who was examined after administering oath, stated that
she was, 20 years at the time of deposition. She has also stated that the
incident took place about one year ago. She loved the accused for long time.
Therefore, she involved in co-habiting with the accused Bikash. As a result of
several co-habitation with the accused Bikash, she became pregnant. Then
accused Bikash told her that why her body was look like pregnant girl. Then
Bikash took her to the doctor and pregnancy test was done, where it’s resulted
as a positive. Thereafter, he took her to Dholaibil hospital for abortion but the
doctor of the said hospital refused to do abortion stating that her age is not
such for abortion. Then accused Bikash Basfor along with his mother Manju

Basfor took her to a Nursing Home at Nagaon and at there the doctor

 
Page 6 of 9

terminated her pregnancy. She was admitted in the said Nursing Home for 2
days. All the expenses for my treatment at Nursing Home was paid by accused
Bikash. Then their “Samaj” has held a meeting but in the said public meeting,
the leaders of the meeting asked the accused to marry her. There were two
meetings were hold for the said occasions. Thereafter, public of the said
meeting advised them to institute a case against the accused persons.
Accordingly, her mother Rina Basfore has lodged an ejahar before the police
station against the accused persons. After instituting the case, policesrecorded
her statement u/s 161 CrPC and also examined through doctor. Thereafter, she
has been sent to Ld. Magistrate to record statement u/s 164\CrPC. Ext 2 is the
said statement u/s 164 of CrPC and Ext 2 (3) to 2 (6),are her signatures.

In cross-examination, she admitted that the case \was lodged by her
mother Rina Basfore due to misunderstanding. ‘Out of love and affection they
have involved in sexual relation as a result of whicheshe became pregnant. In
both the place at her own will went with»the accused. Abortion was done at her
own consent. As the villagers instigated them to file the case against the
accused persons, her mother lodged the ‘case against them. At the instigation
of the villagers they have made statement before the I/O and then to the Ld.
Magistrate. In fact, there.was no such incident took place as stated by her
before the I/O and.before the Ld. Magistrate. At present, the guardians of both
the parties agreed to marry her by accused Bikash but as her father was died
about 3 months ago so their marriage could not solemnized at present
according, to Hindu rites and rituals. At present, she has no any objection if the

accused persons are acquitted from this case.
11... \These much is the evidence of the prosecution.

12. To prove the charge against the accused Smti Manju Basfor u/s 376 of
the IPC read with section 109 of the IPC, prosecution must prove that —
accused abetting her son Bikash Basfor to commit rape on the victim but as
discussed herein before neither in the statement of the complainant who is the
mother of the victim and statement of the victim noway reveals that it is the
accused Smti Manju Basfor who instigated or abetted accused Bikash Basfor to

commit rape on the victim. According to the victim girl, PW 2, she herself stated

 
Page 7 of 9

that she has love affairs with Bikash for long time, therefore, she involved in
co-habiting with the accused Bikash, as a result of several co-habitation with
the accused Bikash, she became pregnant. Therefore no ingredients of section
376 read with section 109 of the IPC is fulfilled as such, failed to prove the said
charge against the accused Smti Manju Basfor.

Secondly, to prove the charge u/s 313 of IPC read with section 109 of
the IPC, prosecution must prove that accused Manju Basfor abetting other
accused, her son Bikash - (i) that the victim was with a child; or that.she was
quick with child, (ii) that the accused did some act likely to cause a ‘miscarriage,
(iii) that the accused did so voluntarily; (iv) that such woman did miscarry in
consequence; (v) that such miscarriage was not caused:in good faith in order to
save the victim’s life. But as stated above, the victim herself. stated that due to
long love affairs they have in indulged in sexual.relation, for several times as a
result she became pregnant. There is no evidence ‘that accused Manju Basfor
abetting her son Bikash to do some acts*by which caused a miscarriage. There
is no any evidence that miscarriage was. not caused in good faith in order to
save the victim’s life. According to the »victim, she was taken by both the
accused persons to Nagaon to terminate her pregnancy. In both the places i.e.
in Dholaibil hospital as»well. as Nagaon Nursing Home she went with the
accused willingly and abortion was done in her consent. Therefore, there is no
any evidence that accused manju Basfor instigated or abetting her son Bikash
Basfor to commit abortion. Therefore, the alleged charge u/s 313 of the IPC
read with,section 109 of the IPC is also failed.

13. \ Similarly as discussed herein above, there is no any evidence about the
exact age of the victim. According to the allegation at the relevant time victim is
16 years old but the complainant who is the mother of the victim stated that at
the relevant time, the age of her daughter was only 18 years and in the court
victim stated that on the date of deposition she was 20 years and the incident
took place about one year ago. Therefore, according to her, she was above 18
years at the time of alleged incident. In fact, the Investigating Officer has failed
to submit any date of Birth Certificate or age certificate of the victim during
investigation. Therefore, the victim cannot be stated to be a girl below the age

of 18 years. As such, charge under section 4 of the Protection of Child from

 
Page 8 of 9

Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, can, there is no any evidence that victim has
been forcefully committed rape by accused. According to the victim she was in
love affairs with the accused for about one year and therefore, she was
indulged in sexual activities with the accused several times at her own will, as a
result, she became pregnant and at her own will she was taken by the accused
where she has been terminated her pregnancy. The abortion was done at her
own will and consent. Therefore, none of the charge u/s 376 of the IPC read
with section 4 of the POCSO Act or under section 313 Cr.P.C. is found.to have
been proved by the prosecution.

14. Under such circumstances, I have no hesitation ‘to hold. that the
prosecution has failed to prove any of the charge levelled against any of the
accused beyond any reasonable doubt. Therefore, I acquit the accused Smti

Manju Basfor and Bikash Basfor and set them atJiberty.
15. ‘The liability of the bailor is hereby:discharged.

Given under my Hand and Seal. of.this Court on this the 31° day of July,
2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and ‘corrected by me.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
Page 9 of 9

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

1. Prosecution Witness No.1 ‘= Smti Rina Basfor, complainant
2. Prosecution Witness No.2 - Victim
Exhibits
Ext. 1 : Ejahat
Ext. 2 : statement of the victim u/s 164°Cr.P.C.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
