Spl.(POCSO) Case No.29/17

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE #: tii: CACHAR.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.29 of 2017
(U/S 366 IPC and Sec.4 of POCSO Act)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......ccccceseeeccceecssstessseeeessseeeees Complainant.
-Versus-

Kalam Uddin Barbhuiya.............ccccccsseseeccesesseeseee Accused.

Charge framed On tm.........cceceeceeceeesteeeeeeessseeeeeessneeeeeees 9.10.17

P.WS. EXAMINE ON i... eeeeeesssecceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeees 18.1.18,3.2.20,

Argument heard On te .o.....eeeeeeeeeeeessteeeeeeeesenteeeenaaaees 2.3.2020.

Judgment pronounced and delivered on:-..........0068 2.3.2020.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : Mr R.A. Barbhuiya,ld. Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant lodged an

FIR with the In-Charge, Bhangarpar Police Outpost stating the facts that on
22/11/16 at about 11 a.m. the victim niece ( name withheld ) of the
informant while going to Bikrampur Golaknath School, at Bhangarpar,
Inspection Bungalow, accused had kidnapped her by his bike. The victim
at 5 p.m. informed the informant on mobile phone stating that accused

had kidnapped her and kept her in a rented house at Premtola, Silchar
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.29/17

and she suspected that the accused might have sold her.

2. On receipt of the FIR, O/c Bhangarpar O.P. forwarded the same
to Borkhola PS wherein a regular PS case vide Borkhola P.S. Case No.393
of 16 U/S 366A of IPC was registered . Police started investigation and
during the course of investigation the statement of the victim girl was
recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C and the victim was medically examined. Police also
recorded the statement of the witnesses etc and subsequently after
completion of investigation submitted charge sheet against the accused
person U/S 366 A of IPC r/w Sec.4 of POCSO Act.

3. As the offence under POCSO Act being exclusively triable by the
Court of Special court , Id. JMFC, Cachar, Silchar sent the case record to
this court and trial was taken up by this court and subsequently in due
course after hearing both sides formal charge U/S 366 IPC and Section 4 of
POCSO Act was framed by my learned predecessor in office against the
accused person. The charge having been read over and explained, the
accused person pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(1) Whether the accused person on 22.11.16 at about 11 a.m.
at village Bhangarpar under Borkhola PS had kidnapped the victim, the
niece of the informant with intent that she may be compelled to marry
against her will or knowing it to be likely that she will be compelled to
marry against her will or in order that she will be forced or seduced to illicit
intercourse, as alleged?

(2) Whether the accused person committed penetrative sexual
assault upon the victim, as alleged ?

5. From the prosecution side as many as three witnesses were
examined including the victim and the informant . On the submission of

the Id. Special PP. the evidence for the prosecution side is closed.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.29/17

Statement of the accused is recorded U/S 313 Cr.P.C. wherein the accused
denied the allegation leveled against him and defence declined to adduce
any evidence.
6. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have
also heard the Ild.counsel for both the parties.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF
7. Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the accused
person as mentioned in points for determination.
8. PW. 1 Dr. Monalisa Dev, the Medical Officer, deposed in her
evidence that she examined the victim on police requisition and she
opined that her ( victim’s) age was above 16 years and below 18 years,
evidence of recent sexual penetration not detected and no injury was
detected on her person and or genitals except old hymenal tears.
9. PW.2, the victim, deposed in her evidence that about three
years back from the date of her deposition at about 4 p.m. the occurrence
took place. She further deposed that at that time she appeared in HSLC
examination and that she had some relations with the accused. On the
date of occurrence it was holiday and she went with the accused when
some villagers including her uncle i.e. the informant saw them. She further
deposed that on the date of occurrence she stayed in the house of Joynal
Abdin Barbhuiya, the principal of her school as it was late in the evening
without informing about her such stay to her family members. She further
deposed that on the following day the informant took her to her house
from the school and she came to know that her informant uncle lodged a
case against the accused suspecting that accused had kidnapped her.
Thereafter police got her medically examined and also got her statement
recorded by the Magistrate u/s 164 CrP.C. vide Ext.2 wherein Exts.2(1),
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.29/17
2(2) and 2(3) are her signatures.

In her cross examination she stated that she deposed before

the Magistrate as per instruction of her uncle.
10. PW.3 Samsuddin Barbhuiya, the informant, deposed in his
evidence that on the day of occurrence his niece, the victim reported him
over telephone that accused had kidnapped her and PW.3 lodged an FIR
to that effect vide Ext.3 wherein Ext.3(1) is his signature.

In the cross examination he stated that he does not know the
contents of Ext.3 and that the victim was given in marriage and she has
been living with her husband.

11. Appreciating the evidence available on record as discussed
above, it reveals that the prime witness the victim PW.2 in her evidence
deposed that on the relevant date and time she went with Kalam and
thereafter she stayed in the house of principal of her school as it was late in
the evening and PW.3 suspecting that accused had kidnapped her ( victim )
lodged FIR against the accused. So, it appears that the prime witness the
victim did not at all implicate the accused in the alleged offence of crime in
any manner. PW.3 who is a reported witness though stated in his evidence
that victim reported him that accused kidnapped the victim but the same
cannot help to the case of the prosecution in view of the categorical
statements of the victim that at first she went with Kalam and thereafter she
stayed at the house of Principal of her school. So, in view of the evidence as
discussed above question of kidnapping of the victim by the accused person
does not come at all and the accused person cannot be fastened in the
alleged offence of crime as charged against him and as such it can be

safely hold that accused is not guilty of the offence as charged against him.
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.29/17

12. Upon consideration of all above the aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/s 366 of IPC and Sec. 4
of POCSO Act against accused.
13. In view of the above, accused person is not held guilty and
stands acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty
forthwith.

Bail bond stands discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on
this the 2" day of March, 2020.

Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee, Stenographer
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.29/17

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, CACHAR, SILCHAR
Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 29 of 2017.

APPENDIX
(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -
PW. 1 — Dr. Monalisa Dev, MO
PW. 2 — Victim
PW.3 - Samsuddin Barbhuiya

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL
(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext. 1 — Medical report
Ext.2 - statement of victim.
Ext.3 - FIR

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.
(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - _—NNIL.
(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: - NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
