IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,
Special Judge,
Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SPL.(POCSO) CASE NO. 1/ 2015.
U/S 8 of POCSO Act.

(G.R. Case No.356/2015 (SLP), Silapathar P.S. Case No.109/2015 Under Section
376(F) of IPC, read with Sec. 8 of POCSO Act)

The State of Assam
- Versus —

Shri Kandowa Mali,
S/O Lt. Dhanbir Mali,
R/O Mechu Chutia Gaon,
P.S. Silapathar,

Dist.- Dhemaji.

Appearance:

Shri A. Fogla,
Public Prosecutor

Shri K.C. Sonowal, Advocate

Date of prosecution evidence

a Accused Person

re For the State

cant riinel For the Accused

: 07-10-2015, 22-03-2016, 16-06-2016,
28-09-2016, 28-03-2017, 20-05-2017,
22-06-2017 and 20-09-2017.
Date of arguments : 06-08-2018

Date of Judgment : 18-08-2018.
JUDGMENT
i. The prosecution case in brief is that on 19-04-2015

complainant- Shri Tulan Saikia lodged an ejahar at Sissiborgaon Police Out
Post under Silapathar Police Station alleging interalia that on 11-04-2015 at
about 3 PM in the afternoon while he and his wife were absent at home,
accused-Kandowa Mali called his minor daughter-Miss ‘xX’ aged about 10 years
to his house to send her to shop to bring tobacco for him. At his house
accused committed rape on complainant's daughter.

zy On receipt of the ejahar,the I/C,Jalaluddin Ahmed, Sissiborgaon
Police Out Post made G.D. Entry vide No.297 dated 19-04-2015 and
forwarded the same to O/C, Silapathar Police Station for registering a case
under proper section of law. He (1/C) entrusted S.I. Lalit Saikia to investigate
the case. In the meantime, O/C, Silapathar Police Station, Abdul Hannan
registered the case vide Silapathar P.S. Case No. 109/2015 u/s 376(F) IPC
r/w Sec. 4 of POCSO Act. On completion of investigation I/O Lalit Saikia
submitted Charge-sheet against the accused-Kandowa Mali u/s 354 of IPC
R/W section 4 of the POCSO Act.

3. On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charges u/s 8 of POCSO Act and read-over and
explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The prosecution, in order to
prove its case, examined 10 witnesses including the I/O and M/O. After
Closure of the prosecution evidence statement of the accused was recorded
u/s 313 Cr.PC. Defence plea is of total denial. However, the defence adduced

no evidence in support of his case.
4. Point for determination:

(1) That you, on 11-04-2015 committed sexual assault on Miss
'X’, a minor girl aged about 10 years inside your house at Mechu
Chutia Gaon under Silapathar Police Station and thereby you
committed an offence punishable u/s 8 of the POCSO Act.

ye I have gone through the evidence on record and heard

arguments of both sides.

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof :

 

6. PW1 Shri Tulan Saikia stated that Exhibit-1 is the ejahar filed
by him. At the time of occurrence, he was not present at his home. His
daughter-Miss ‘X’ was playing in their courtyard at that time. Accused-
Kandowa Mali came to their house and called his daughter to send her to
shop to bring tobacco for him and also asked her to eat sweet in his house.
At that time, there was none at his home. Accused forcibly committed rape
on his daughter by closing the door of his house. His (PW1) wife informed
him about the matter/incident. On being asked to his daughter, she told him
that accused committed rape on her removing her panty. Then he filed
complaint at the Police Station. First, he informed the matter to the
Gaonburha who assured him to settle the matter. So, there was delay in filing
the complaint. Police recorded his statement. The victim Miss ‘X’ was
examined medically. Magistrate also recorded her statement. At the relevant
time of occurrence, the victim ‘X’ was aged 10 years.

In cross-examination PW1 denied the defence suggestion that
he did not state before police that his wife did not state about the occurrence
to him. He denied that he did not state before police that the accused called
his daughter to his house in order to bring tobacco and to give money to the
victim for eating sweets. He also denied that in order to drive him (accused)
away from his living place, he has filed false case and given false evidence.

He also denied that the accused did not commit rape on his daughter.

Ve PW2 Smt. Pratibha Saikia stated that she knows the accused.
Complainant is her husband. Occurrence took place in the last year. On the
day of occurrence, she went to the house of Thane Mali to attend a ‘Hakan?
(religious function). Her husband was not present at home. Her daughter was
playing with her friends. Then the accused called the victim ‘xX’ to his house to
send her to shop to bring tobacco for him. Her daughter told him that
accused inserted his penis into her vagina by removing her panty. In the
meantime, her husband came and she told him about the incident. Knowing
about the matter, her neighbours also came to their house. After the
occurrence, the accused fled away from his house. As the family members of
accused assured that they will bring the accused, so they did not inform the
police. As they (family members of accused) failed to bring back the accused
her husband filed complaint at police station. At the time of occurrence the
victim *X’ was 10 years old and she was reading in Class-V.

In cross PW2 stated that police recorded her statement and
while she gave statement before police, she did not state before them that
the victim *X’ told her that accused inserted his penis into her private part
(vagina). She stated only before police that the accused fulfilled his ill motive
(sexual desire). She denied the suggestion that no occurrence took place as
stated by her. She also denied that she has given false evidence against the
accused.

8. PW3 the victim Miss ‘Xx’ stated that on the day of occurrence
she was playing with her friends/companions. Then accused called her to his
house to bring tobacco worth Rs.5/- . Accused removed her panty in his room
and laid her down on the bed. Thereafter, accused penetrated his penis into
her vagina. The children who were playing with her, came to his (accused)
house and knocked at the door and then he released her and opened the
door. She told that she has returned the five rupees to his (accused) son
which was given to her by the accused for buying tobacco. On the day of
occurrence, accused’s family members went to attend a religious function.
After coming to her home, she first informed about the occurrence to her
aunt-Putu and she (Putu) informed about this fact to her (victim) mother. She
felt pain in her private part. She had got bath by her mother. Magistrate
asked her about the occurrence. Police recorded her statement.

In cross PW3 stated that accused committed bad thing with her
by pressing her on the wall. She denied that she did not state before police
and Magistrate that accused committed rape on her by pressing her on the
wall. She also denied that she did not state before Police and Magistrate that
the accused inserted his male organ into her vagina. She admitted that she
did not stated about the occurrence to her mother. It is also denied that the
accused did not brought her to his house. She denied that she has given
evidence as tutored by her mother.

9: PW4 Smt. Dipsikha Dutta stated that she knows the accused.
She also knows the complainant-Tulan Saikia and his daughter- Miss ‘x’
Occurrence took place in the last year. On the day of occurrence victim was
playing with her friends/companions. Victim told her that the accused on the
pretext of bringing tobacco from the shop, called her to his house and
committed rape on her by removing her panty. Thereafter, father of the
victim filed complaint at police station. Police came for investigation and
recorded her statement.
In cross-examination PW4 denied the defence suggestion that
she did not state before police while recording her statement that accused
committed bad thing with the victim by removing her panty. She denied that
the victim ‘X’ did not tell about the occurrence. She also denied that she has

given false evidence against the accused.

10. PW5 Smti Sabita Saikia stated that she knows the accused.
Complainant-Tulan Saikia is her Bartana’ (husband's elder brother). Victim is
the daughter of the complainant. Occurrence took place about one year ago
(from the date of her recording evidence). In absence of the complainant and
his wife at home, accused called the victim ‘X’ to his house to bring tobacco
from a shop. Father of the victim told her that accused closed the door of his
house after taking the victim to his house and committed bad act with her
removing her panty. It was also stated by the complainant to her that the
accused touched his penis into her private part. After filing the complaint at

police station by the complainant, police took his statement.

In cross-examination PW5 admitted that she did not state
before police that the victim and her father told her about the occurrence.
She also denied the defence suggestion that the accused did not do bad thing
with the victim.

Ei. PW6 Shri Pradip Senapati stated that Accused-Kandowa Mali
and the informant-Tulan Saikia are known to him. Victim ‘Xx’ is the daughter
of Tulan Saikia. Occurrence took place about two years ago (from the date of
her recording evidence). Police had come as he was on his way to the shop.
Then they called him to Tulan’s house. He went there. He had heard that
Kandowa had raped the victim ‘X’.

In cross PW6 stated that he got to know about the incident
from the police only.
12. PW7 Shri Babul Saikia stated that the accused Kandowa Mali is
known to him. He also knows the informant-Tulan Saikia. The victim ‘Xx’ is the
daughter of Tulan Saikia. At the time of occurrence he was not present at his
home. Occurrence took place about one year ago. He (PW7) heard that
accused did bad thing with the victim girl. He heard about the occurrence
from his family members. He did not go there but after 3 days when police
came and did not find the accused, they (police) took his signature.

In cross PW7 stated that he cannot say from whom he had
heard about the incident.

13. PW8 Dr. Khanikar Gogoi stated that on 20-04-2015 he
examined the victim Miss ‘X’ aged 10 years, D/O Tulan Saikia vide ML.130/15
at Dhemaji Civil Hospital. On examination, he found no any sign of injury on
her body at the time of examination. Patient was advised X-Ray for
determination of age. As per the X-Ray Report, age of the victim was below
15 years. He opined that it is an old case (10 days old).No recent intercourse
was detected on her genital parts. What do you have to say.

Defence declined to cross-examine the Doctor.

14. PW9 Sumnath Bhuyan stated that he knows the accused as
well as the informant-Tulan Saikia and his daughter Miss ‘X’. One day, in the
month of April/2015 complainant-Tulan Saikia came to his house and told him
that the accused sexually assaulted her (victim) inside his house and fled
away from the house. As he (witness-Sumnath Bhuyan) is the Gaonburha, he
went to the house of Tulan Saikia. Some other persons also gathered there.
He went to his (accused) house. Accused’s family members told him that they
do not know anything. Accused’s family members informed that accused fled
away from the house. They asked to wait for 2/4 days. When the accused will

come home then they will settle the matter. As the accused did not come to
his home after 10/12 days, Tulan Saikia filed complaint at the police station.
Police recorded his statement. After filing the case at the police station,
accused came home. On being asked the accused about the occurrence, he
told that false allegation has been brought against him He (PW-Sumnath
Bhuyan) stated that when he handed-over you at police station, accused’s

family members were with him.

In cross-examination PW9 denied the defence suggestion that
he did not state before police that Tulan Saikia stated before him about
committing bad act with the victim girl inside his (accused) house. He also
denied that accused-Kandowa Mali did not go away from his house.

15. PW Lalit Saikia stated that on 19-04-2015 he was at
Sissiborgaon Police Out Post as Attached Officer. On that day, I/C Jalaluddin
Ahmed, on receipt of an ejahar filed by Shri Tulan Saikia, made G.D. Entry
No.297 dated 19-08-2015 and entrusted him with the investigation of the
case, and the ejahar was forwarded to O/C, Silapathar Police Station for
registering a case. During the course of investigation, he recorded statement
of the complainant and his wife-Pratibha Saikia and the victim girl at the Out
Post. On 20-04-2015 he sent the victim to Dhemaji Civil Hospital for medical
examination. He went to the place of occurrence and drew a sketch map of
the P.O. The place of occurrence is the accused’s house. Accused was absent
at home at that time. He recorded statements of witnesses- Dip Sikhas Dutta,
Sabita Saikia, Pradip Senapati at the P.O. In the meantime, O/C, Silapathar
Police Station registered the case vide Silapathar P.S. Case No. 109/2015 u/s
376(1) read with sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. On 21-04-2015 he forwarded the
victim to the Court for recording her statement u/s 164 of Cr.P.C. On that
day, he again went to the P.O. in search of the accused but he did not find
him. On that day also he recorded statement of Sumnath Bhuyan
(Gaonburha), Babul Saikia, Keshab Dutta. On 4-5-2015, he arrested the
accused in his house and brought to the police station. On completion of
investigation, he submitted charge-sheet against the accused u/s 354 of IPC
read with sec. 4 of POCSO Act.

Defenbce declined to cross-examine PW-10.

Appreciation of evidence :

16. From the discussion of the evidence on record it appears that
PW1 is the complainant as well as father of the victim and PW2 is the mother
of victim. According to PW1 and PW2 on the date of occurrence accused
Kandowa Mali came to their house and called his daughter to his house to
send her to bring tobacco from shop and also asked her to eat sweet in his
house and at his house accused committed rape on their daughter. Victim
has been examined as PW3. As per version of PW3 accused called her to his
house to bring tobacco and at his house accused removed her panty and laid
her down on the bed and thereafter inserted his penis in to her vagina. It is
also in her evidence is that she was playing with her friends before coming to
the house of the accused and her friends came to accused’s house and
knocked on the door of accused’s house and she came out. Other non-official
PWs- PW2, PW5 also supported the version of the victim stating that the
accused called victim to his house on the pretext of sending her to bring
tobacco for him, committed rape on her. Evidence of PW6 and PW7 is not

very significant.

a7: Further from the evidence of PW1 and PW2 it appears that at
the relevant time the victim was reading in class V and she was aged about
10 years.

18. Now looking of the MO (PW8) it appears that doctor examined

the victim on 20-04-2015 about 10 days after the occurrence. The MO in his
report mentioned that he did not find any sign of sexual intercourse on the
a

Special Judge,
Dhami.

10

genital part of the victim and also mentioned that there was no external
injury mark found on the body of the victim. According to PW8 age of the

victim is below 15 years of age.

19. From the above analysis of evidence of vital witnesses including
the victim we find that they have corroborated one another with respect to
the fact that on the date of occurrence accused called victim to his house. It
may be noted here that PW3 in her statement u/s 164 Cr.PC stated that
accused removed her panty and touched her back/buttock. So, even though
the victim in her evidence spoke that the accused inserted his penis into her
vagina, on careful examination of the evidence of victim as well as the
evidence of MO it can be inferred that the accused touched the anus/buttock
of the victim with sexual intent. In her cross also victim stated that the
accused did bad act with her by making her lean on a wall.

20. At this stage it would be appropriate to look at the provisions of
section 7 of POCSO Act as follows:-

Section 7 sexual assault — ‘Whoever, with sexual intent
touches the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or any other
person, or does any other act with sexual intent which involves
physical contact without penetration is said to commit sexual assault.’

al. I have given my thoughtful consideration to the evidence on
record. I find that the evidence of PWs particularly of victim inspires
confidence and there is absolutely no material contradiction to discard her
evidence.

hd. In view of my discussion and reasons above I find that
prosecution has been able to prove charge u/s 8 of POCSO Act against the
accused beyond all reasonable doubt.
Lt

ORDER:

23. In the result, I find accused Kandowa Mali guilty u/s 8 of
POCSO Act. Accordingly he is convicted thereunder.

24. Heard the accused on the point of sentence.

25. It is submitted that accused is aged about 60 years and lenient
view may be taken while awarding punishment.

26. Considering all aspect accused is sentences R.I. for 3 years and
to pay a fine of Rs.1,000/- (one thousand) i/d R.I. for another one month.

27. Set off the period of detention.

28. Furnish copy of judgment to the accused free of cost.

29. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.

30. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 18%
day of August/ 2018.

isl

( S. Das )

al
12

APPENDIX:

Prosecution Witnesses

PW1

PW2:

PW3

PW4 :
PW5 :
PW6 :
PW7 :
PW8 :
PW9 :

: Tulan Saikia,

Smt. Pratibha Saikia,
: Miss ‘xX’, (Victim)
Smti Dipsikha Dutta,
Smti Sabita Saikia,
Pradip Senapati,
Babul Saikia,

Dr. Khanikar Gogoi,
Sumnath Bhuyan,

PW10 : Lalit Saikia, (I/O).
Prosecution Exhibits :

Exhibit-1 : Ejahar,

Exhibit-1(1) : Signature of Tulan Saikia (complainant),

Exhibit-2 : Statement of Victim ‘X’ u/s 164 Cr.PC,
Exhibit-2(1-2): Signatures of the victim ‘x’.
Exhibit-3 : Medical Report,

Exhibit-3(1) : Signature of Dr. Khanikar Gogoi,
Exhibit-4 : X-Ray report,

Exhibit-4(1) : Signature of Dr. B Kuli,

Exhibit-5 : Sketch Map.

Exhibit-5(1) : Signature of Lalit Saikia, (I/O).
Exhibit-6 : Charge Sheet,

Exhibit-6(1) : Signature of Lalit Saikaia, I/O.

( S.Das)

Special, J ge,
so
