IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE : : : JORHAT.

PRESENT : Smt. Rani Boro, A.J.S.,
Chief Judicial Magistrate,

Jorhat.
For the Prosecution — Binan Ch. Bora, A.P.P.
For the accused person bees Ashok Ranjan Bora, Anup Senapati,

Advocates.

Ref. : G.R. Case No. 1667 of 2012.
State of Assam

-VS-

Md. Karim Ali — Accused person.

Under sections 23/24 Juvenile Justice Act.

Charge framed on oe 06.12.2017.
Evidence recorded on a 29.08.2018.
Statement of the accused u/s 313 Cr. P.C. recorded on : Dispensed with.
Arguments heard on bens 24.12.2018.
Judgment delivered on — 24.12.2018.

JUDGMENT AND ORDER

1. The brief facts of this prosecution case is that the informant lodged FIR before
Gormur Police Out Post that four child labourers were employed by Nikon Company,
during construction of high voltage electric lines at Gormur Nawpomua, the Company
has violated Child Labour Prohibition Act and has employed children in hazardous work

for which informant filed FIR before Gormur Police Out Post for necessary action.

2. The I/C Garmur Police Out Post received the FIR and after a G.D. Entry vide
No. 210 dated 18.09.2012 forwarded the same to Jorhat Police Station for registration

of a case.

G.R. Case No. 1667/12
3. The O/C Jorhat Police Station received and registered a case as Jorhat P.S.
Case No. 893/2012 under sections 23/24 of Juvenile Justice (Care and Protection of
children) Act, 2000. The Investigating Officer investigated this case and on completion
of investigation filed charge sheet against the accused Md. Karim Ali under sections
23/24 of Juvenile Justice Act.

4. Case record was kept in the file of this Court for disposal. Summons was issued
to the accused. On appearance of the accused, he was allowed to go on bail. Copy was
furnished to him under section 207 Cr. P.C. and on finding sufficient materials against
the accused, formal charge under sections 23/24 of Juvenile Justice Act was framed
against the accused. The charge was read over and explained to the accused to which

he pleaded not guilty and stood up to face trial.

Ds Prosecution examined one witness as PW1 in this case. As nothing incriminating
was found in his evidence so evidence was closed and Statement of the accused u/s
313 Cr. P.C. is dispensed with. Arguments from both sides were heard and judgment is

prepared accordingly.

6. The points which arise for determination in this case are :-

I. Whether the accused on 12.09.2012 being head of Nikon Company and
being in charge of some juvenile/child exposed them to unnecessary physical or
mental suffering and hence liable to be punished under section 23 of Juvenile
Justice Act?

II. Whether the accused on 12.09.2012 employed the juvenile/child for
purpose of begging and hence liable to be punished under section 24 of

Juvenile Justice Act?

7. DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :

 

I have heard arguments of both sides and also perused the materials
and evidence on record. My decision and reasons for the decision are as

follows:

G.R. Case No. 1667/12
8. PW1 is the informant of this case who deposed in his evidence that he was
working as President of Assam Jatiyabadi Yuwa Satra Parishad in the year 2012. He
does not know the accused person standing in the dock on that day. In the year 2012
they received an information from local people that there was some small children
working in the electrical work at engineering road. When they reached the spot they
found some people engaged in the electrical work of the company. Accordingly he
lodged the FIR for incident at Garmur O.P. Exhibit-1 is the FIR and Exhibit-1(1) is his
signature. He lodged this case on the basis of information by the local people at the
Garmur O.O.

9. During cross-examination, PW1 deposed that when he reached the spot he did
not see children engage in the electrical work. He has lodged this case out of
suspicion. He has not seen any children doing any electrical work and except this he

does not know anything.

10. From the evidence of only prosecution witness PW1, it appears that it was PW1
who had lodged this case against the accused. According to PW1, he received an
information from the local people that some small children were working in the Electric
Division at Engineering Road. When they reached the spot, they found some people
engaged in electric work of the company. It is also seen from the evidence that he
lodged this case out of suspicion and he did not see any children doing any electric

work.

11. In view of such evidence of PW1 that he lodged this case on suspicion and no
children were employed in the electric work, it appears that no allegations exists
against the accused and there are also no incriminating materials in the evidence of
PW1. As apparent the victims of this case have failed to adduce their evidence despite

repeated issuance of summons to them and due service.

12. Considering therefore the quality of evidence of PW1 and absence of
incriminating materials against the accused, I deem it fit and proper to acquit the

accused of the offences under sections 23/24 of Juvenile Justice Act.

G.R. Case No. 1667/12
ORDER

 

In the light of the above discussions, the accused Md. Karim Ali is acquitted of
offence under sections 23/24 of Juvenile Justice Act and set at liberty forthwith, as
prosecution failed to prove the guilt of the accused beyond reasonable doubt.

Bail bond shall remain in force for six months from today, in the light of section

437(A) of Cr. P.C.
Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 24" day of December,

2018.

(Smt. R. Boro)
Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jorhat.
Dictated & corrected by me :

Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jorhat.

Typed and Transcribed by:

(Bhuneshwar Saw)

Stenographer Grade-III

G.R. Case No. 1667/12
APPENDIX.

WITNESSES FOR THE PROSECUTION :

P.W.1 _ Sri Shiva Kalita.

WITNESSES FOR THE DEFENCE :

NIL.

DOCUMENTS EXHIBITTED BY PROSECUTION SIDE:

Ext. 1 : Ejahar;

DOCUMENT EXHIBITED BY DEFENCE SIDE/ACCUSED :

NIL.

(Smt. R. Boro)
Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jorhat.

G.R. Case No. 1667/12
