CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 32/16

Informant: | Sri Ganesh Mahato,
S/o- Late Lala Mahato,
R/o- Dinjay Paniera Gaon,
PS- Chabua,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Prafulla Gogoi,
S/o- Late Gandheswar Gogoi,
R/o- Dinjay Gaon,
PS- Chabua,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. S Todi, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH
Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 32/16
G.R. Case No. 695/16

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Prafulla Gogoi

Charges: Under Sections 9/6/18 of POCSO Act.
Date of evidence on : 02-07-16, 02-08-16, 08-09-16, 08-05-17, 12-12-17,
13-03-18 and 07-08-18.

Date of argument : 01-11-18.
Date of Judgment _ : 28-11-18.

JUDGMENT
1) A brief account of this case is that on 14-03-16, at about 12 noon, the 10

year old victim-say-'X' was playing along with her friends in Naren Das's
house and at that time, Sri Prafulla Gogoi (hereinafter the accused) induced
the victim to go with him and attempted to commit rape on her by gagging
her by her mouth. At that time, Naren Das's son Rajen Das and Babatu
Mahato witnessed the incident and raised alarm and the labourers working in
the tea garden, rushed to the spot. An ejahar regarding this incident was
lodged by the victim's father Sri Ganesh Mahato (hereinafter the informant)
which was registered as Chabua PS Case No. 32/16 under Sections 376/511
of the Indian Penal Code (IPC for short), read with Section 4 of the Protection
of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act for short) and SI
Bidyut Dutta was endorsed with the investigation.

2) The officer in charge (OC in short) embarked upon the investigation. He

forwarded the victim to the Magistrate for recording her statement. He also
3)

4)

)

6)

7)

forwarded the victim for medical examination. He went to the place of
occurrence and recorded the statements of the witnesses. On finding prima
facie materials, he submitted Charge Sheet against accused person under
Sections 376/511 IPC, read with Section 4 of POCSO Act.
On appearance of accused, copies were furnished and a formal charge under
section 9 and section 6/18 of POCSO Act was framed and read over explained
to the accused. The accused abjured his guilt and claimed innocence.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of 10
witnesses including the medical officer (MO for short) and the IO, and also
exhibited several documents. The defence cross examined the witnesses to
refute the charges.
On the inculpatory circumstances arising against him, the accused stated in
his answers under Section 313(1)(b) of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC
for short) that it was a rainy date and when he went to check the manure,
the victim slipped and fell down, because of the rains and when he tried to
protect her, the victim screamed and Rajen came and he was then falsely
entangled with this case.

Submissions
The learned Public Prosecutor Smt. Runumi Devi and learned Addl. Public
Prosecutor Mrs. Sahnaz Akhtar laid stress in their arguments that PW-1 is a
reliable witness, because she is the victim in this case. Sri Rejan Rabidas is an
employee in the garden belonging to the accused person, so he turned
hostile at the stage of evidence. Apart from the evidence of hostile witnesses,
the evidence of other witnesses proves beyond reasonable doubt that the
accused is complicit.

The learned defence counsel Sri Sameer Todi emphasised through his
argument that this case is fraught with contradictions. Even the evidence of
the victim's parents depicts contradiction. It is clear that PW-1 did not inform
her parents. It is submitted that it was raining and the road was slippery and
the victim fell down and when the accused tried to help the victim, at that
moment, his good intentions where misunderstood. It is also contended that
PW-3 stated that he lodged the FIR, because he was told to lodge the FIR.
The hostile witness is not a permanent employee, but temporary labourer
and he is not inimical. The MO's evidence depicts that the victim was not
shocked at the time of her examination. In this manner, the accused gets a
benefit of doubt. His age has to be taken into consideration, because he is 65
years of age and so on and so forth.
Points for determination:

8) On the backdrop of the rival contentions urged at the bar, the following points
are apposite for proper adjudication of this case:

i. Whether on 14-03-16, the accused committed aggravated
sexual assault on the victim 'X' who is under 12 years of
age?

ii. Whether at the same time and place, the accused
attempted to commit aggravated penetrative sexual assault
on the victim 'X' who is under 12 years of age?

Decision thereon and the reasons for the decision:
9) To decide the case in its proper perspective, it is necessary to delve into the
evidence.
10) The victim was ten years of age at the time when she deposed in the Court
and so oath was not administered. Several questions were asked to her and

her answers depicted that she could give rational answers. She testified as
PW-1 and she identified the accused person. She stated that on the day of
the incident, she went out searching for her goat near Rajen’s house. She
asked Rajen about her goat and he told her that there was no goat around
the place. Then she proceeded towards her house. At that time, the accused
called her and asked her to sit on his lap and he started teaching A, B, C, D
and Ka, Kha, Ga, Gha orally. At that time, a person came to supply manure to
the accused person. The person asked the accused to go home and then the
accused stated that he will go home only if he could take her (PW-1) along
with him.

11) The evidence of PW-1 further proceeds that the accused offered to show how
manure is sprinkled in the garden. He asked her to accompany him. Then in
the hope of getting her goat, she accompanied the accused, while the other
person who came to supply manure to the accused, went away. She
accompanied the accused to the backside of Rajen’s house where tea bushes
stood. When she reached the spot, the accused person laid her down on the
ground and pulled down her panty. She screamed and then the accused
gagged her by her mouth. Then Rajen heard her screaming and he came to
the spot and rescued her. Before Rajen’s arrival, the accused also squeezed
her breasts. Rajen came and pulled the accused person away from her and
he raised alarm. Meanwhile, other people arrive and assaulted the accused.
Her elder sister also came and then the villagers took the accused through
the village and she accompanied them along with her sister Junaki.
Thereafter, she was brought to the police station along with her parents. That
night, she stayed in her maternal aunt’s house. Next day, she was brought to
Dibrugarh by the police and the doctor examined her. She was also forwarded

to the Court and the Magistrate recorded her statement. She did not narrate
the incident to her parents, as her parents have already heard about the
incident. Ext. 1 is her statement before the Magistrate.

12) PW-1 was cross-examined in extenso. She testified in her cross-examination
that she did not know the date of the incident. Her house is situated about
100 metres away from Rajen’s house. The accused person has a t ea garden
adjacent to Rajen’s house. At the time of the incident, two persons were
sprinkling manure in the accused person’s tea garden and Rajen was one of
them. She denied about her omission to state before the IO that she asked
Rajen about her goat and he informed her that there was no goat around.
She denied about her omission to state before the IO as well as the
Magistrate that the person who came to spread manure, asked the accused
to go home and then the accused insisted that he would go home only if he
could take her (PW-1) with him and she also denied her omission to state
before the police that the accused laid her on the ground and removed her
panty. This contradictions have been affirmed by the IO. SI Bidyut Dutta is
the IO and he testified in his cross-examination as PW-10 that the victim 'X'
did not state under Section 161 CrPC that she asked Rajen about her goat
and he informed her that there was no goat around and a person who came
to give manure, asked the accused to go home and the accused insisted to
return home if he could take her (PW-1) with him and that she omitted to
state before him that the accused laid her and removed her panty. It is
germane to mention at this juncture that her aforementioned statement
remained uncontradicted to her statement under Section 164 CrPC. Ext. 1(1)
and Ext. 1920 included her statement under Section 164 CrPC.

13) It has to be borne in mind that the learned defence counsel did not cross-

examine the victim about her omission to state before the IO that the
accused person squeezed her breasts. This implies that the accused person
indeed squeezed her breasts. This testimony of PW-1 remained
uncontradicted and uncontroverted. The fact that the accused gagged her
when she screamed remained uncontradicted and uncontroverted. It has to
be borne in mind that the victim is a young girl who was found to be below
12 years of age by the MO. Immediately after the incident, she was in a state
of stupor and shock. Such a young girl may not know how to describe an
incident in details. The legal technicality is not known to her. Despite the fact
that the victim is a young girl, her evidence that the accused gagged her and
squeezed her breasts, remained uncontradicted. There is no contradiction
regarding her testimony that the accused laid her on the ground and
removed her panty with her statement under Section 164 CrPC. It is held that
the victim’s testimony that the accused squeezed her breasts and gagged her,
remained uncontradicted. No reason is fathomable why the victim under
twelve years of age, will implicate an old person if he is not complicit.

14) The evidence of PW-2 lends corroboration to the evidence of PW-1. Smti.
Asha Mahato testified as PW-2 that on the day of the occurrence, she was
working in the garden and her daughter was alone at home. Her nephew
Sanjay Mahato informed her in the garden that something had happened in
her house and she should go home. Then she went to her house and she
noticed that the accused was apprehended by the villagers. At that time, the
police arrived. The police took the accused, her husband and her daughter
along with her to the police station. The police brought her daughter to the
medical college. Later on, she came to know from her daughter 'X' that on
the day of the incident, she was searching for her goat in Rajen’s house and

then she met the accused person. Thereafter, the accused started teaching
her A, B, C, D and Ka, Kha, Ga, Gha and she was taken to the nearby tea
garden. The accused tried to remove her panty and squeezed on different
parts of her body. At that time, Rajen heard her screaming and went there.
Her daughter was about ten years.

15)She admitted in her cross-examination of her omission to state before the
police that her daughter informed her that the accused tutored her and
taught her A, B, C, D and took her to the nearby garden and the accused
tried to open her panty and pressed on the different parts of her body.

16) This contradiction elicited by the defence counsel can be safely discarded,
because the victim testified that she did not inform her parents about the
incident, because her parents already heard about the incident.

17) Sri Ganesh Mahato testified as PW-3 that the incident took place about three
months ago. At that time, he was working in the garden. His son Mahesh
Mahato went and informed him that the accused took his daughter towards
the garden and tried to misbehave with her. Immediately, he went to the
place of occurrence and saw the accused person. The villagers caught the
accused near Naren Das’s house. Several people were assembled there. He
noticed that his daughter 'X' was weeping and he also noticed his elder
daughter Junaki Mahato. On being asked, his daughter 'X' told that she was
taken by the accused person towards the garden and he tried to misbehave
with her. One of the accused persons present there, informed the police and
the police arrived at the spot. The police took the accused to the police
station and he went to the police station along with his daughter and his
wife. The Gaonburah wrote the FIR and he affixed his signature. Ext. 2 is the
FIR and Ext. 2(1) is his signature.

18)In his cross-examination, he testified that the distance between his house
and Rajen’s house is 10 metres. The accused person’s tea garden is adjacent
to Rajen’s residence.

19) This part of his cross-examination lends corroboration to the testimonies of
PW-1, because she stated in her cross-examination that the accused person's
tea garden is adjacent to Rajen’s house. He could not remember whether he
had stated under Section 161 CrPC that while he was working in the tea
garden, his son Mahesh Mahato went and informed him that the accused
taught his daughter A, B, C, D and took her to the garden and tried to
misbehave with her. He admitted about his omission to state before the police
that he saw his daughter 'X' was crying by sitting in Rajen’s house and he
also saw his other daughter Junaki holding her. He admitted that he did not
state before the police that on being asked, his daughter informed him that
the accused taught her A, B, C, D and Ka, Kha, Ga, Gha and took her to the
garden and tried to commit some bad acts with her. The accused was
assaulted by 50/100 villagers in his presence. As Rajen and other people
informed him about the incident, he believed the incident to be true. PW-1
has already stated in her evidence-in-chief that her parents already heard
about the incident from the villagers. This has been corroborated by the
evidence of PW-3 who testified that Rajen and other people informed him
about the incident and he believed the incident to be true. The contradiction
regarding his daughter’s cross-examination and his cross-examination can be
discarded. There is a contradiction that his daughter informed him about the
incident, because PW-1 denied of informing her parents about the incident.
The corroborative evidence clearly depicts that the accused taught the victim
A, B, C, D and then he took her to the nearby garden and misbehaved with

her.
10

20)The evidence of PW-4 depicts the latter part of the incident. Sri Mahesh
Mahato @ Babatu is PW-4 and he testified that the victim is his younger
sister. On the day of the incident, she went to Rajen’s house. After a while, he
heard a commotion in the nearby tea garden of the accused. Then he saw his
sister in the tea garden along with several other villagers. Later on, the
villagers caught the accused and handed him over to the police. The evidence
clearly depicts that he learnt about the incident when he noticed the
gathering. His evidence clearly depicts that his sister was found in the
accused person's tea garden. His evidence lends corroboration to the
evidence of PW-1, because her evidence clearly depicts that the accused took
her to the tea garden at the time when his labourers were sprinkling manure.
In sync with the evidence of PW-1, PW-4 testified that he saw his sister 'X'
near the tea garden along with several villagers. Later on, the villagers
caught the accused and handed him over to the police.

21)Sri Rajen Rabidas is a hostile witness, but his evidence supports and
corroborates the evidence of PW-5, despite the fact that he tried to shield the
accused person. He testified that the incident took place about 5/6 months
ago. On the day of the incident, at about 10:30 pm, he was spraying
pesticide in the tea garden of the accused.

22)This part of the evidence of PW-5 finds corroboration from the evidence of
PW-1, because PW-1 also testified in her cross-examination that Rajen was
one of the two persons sprinkling manure in the tea garden of the accused
person. The evidence of PW-5 further proceeds that at that time, he heard
cries, and went towards the place and noticed that 'X' was lying on the road
and at that time, the accused was also lying on the road. Then he brought

the victim from the place and the nearby villagers caught the accused person.
11

At that time, the police came to the place of occurrence and the villagers
handed him over to the police. Later on, Sri Ganesh Manato lodged an ejahar
with the police.

23) The evidence of PW-1 that Rajen came to her rescue, is corroborated by the
evidence of PW-5. Although Rajen tried to conceal the remaining part of the
incident, yet it is held that PW-1 finds corroboration from the evidence of
PW-5. Despite the fact that PW-5 changed his version and turned hostile, the
part of his statement under Section 161 CrPC is not required to be discussed
to elicit corroboration. PW-5 fortified that part of the evidence of PW-1 that
she was found lying on the road. There is not an iota of doubt that PW-1 was
found lying in the garden. The hostile witness testified that she was found
lying on the road, while PW-1 testified that she was laid down by the accused
person who attempted to commit rape on her and pressed her breasts.

24) This witness was cross-examined on the prayer by the prosecution and he
denied his statement under Section 161 CrPC that he stated before the IO
that- "Joday in the noon, while I was spraying pesticides in the garden of
Pratulla Gogoi, he was sitting in our house. At that time, 'X' came to our
house and asked for my younger sister. When I told that my younger sister is
not in our house, then 'X' went out from our house. But Pratulla Gogoi took
on his lap and asked her several questions regarding her study. Then I went
inside my room to watch TV. After a while, when he came out, I did not find
my sister X' in our house. Suddenly, I heard a sound of crying from the side
of tea garden. At that time, hearing the sound, I went out with Babatu who
arrived in my house at that time, towards the garden of Pratulla Gogoi and
saw that Prafulla Gogoi gagged the mouth of X’. Then I gave a slap on the

accused Prafulla Gogoi and several other people gathered there who
12

assaulted the accused.”

25) This part of the evidence of PW-5 under Section 161 CrPC has been affirmed
by the IO who testified as PW-10. Even if this part of the evidence of PW-5 is
not take into consideration, yet the evidence-in-chief which corroborates the
evidence of PW-1, affirms that the incident took place about 5/6 months ago.
It was 10:30 am and PW-5 was sprinkling pesticide in the tea garden. At that
time, PW-1 screamed and he went towards the place and saw PW-1 lying on
the road. The remaining part has been described by PW-1 with clarity which
could not be rejected at all.

26) At this juncture, I would like to rely on the decision of Hon’ble the Supreme
Court of India in Radha Mohan Singh @ Lal Sahib vs. State of UP
[(2006) 2 SCC 450] wherein it has been held that-

"wilt [s well settled that the evidence of a prosecution
witness cannot be rejected in toto merely because the
prosecution chose to treat him as hostile and cross-
examined him. The evidence of such witness cannot be
treated as effaced or washed off the record altogether but
the same can be accepted to the extent his version is
found to be dependable on a careful scrutiny thereof..."
27)In the instant case also, it is clear that the evidence of PW-5 lends
corroboration to the evidence of PW-1 even if his statement under Section
161 CrPC is not considered. I have considered his evidence-in-chief in the
Court without relying at all on his statement under Section 161 CrPC, which
was projected by the prosecution after he was declared as hostile and which
was also affirmed by the IO.

28) The evidence of PW-6 Sri Jogeswar Mahato depicts that the incident took
13

place about 4/5 months ago. On that day, he was returning from Chabua and
on his way back home, he noticed several villagers of his locality in the police
station. Later, he learnt that the accused committed misdeed with the victim
"xX.

29) At this juncture, it is pertinent to mention that on 02-07-16, PWs-2 and 3
testified that the incident occurred about three months ago. On 02-08-16,
PW-5 testified that the incident occurred about 5/6 months ago and on
08-09-16, PW-6 testified that the incident took place about 4/5 months ago.
The witnesses have given an approximate date and time. It is clear from the
FIR that the incident occurred on 14-03-16. Thus, the date and time given by
the witnesses is similar to the date and time of the incident. The witnesses
are tea garden labourers and they are naive witnesses and so they could give
the idea of the date and time of the incident. However, there is no dispute
regarding date and time of the incident.

30)The learned defence counsel emphasized through his argument that the
contradictions extend a benefit of doubt to the accused person.

31)I have already held in my foregoing discussions that the contradictions are
minor contradictions which can safely be brushed aside. In this regard, I
would like to rely on the decision of Hon’ble the Supreme Court in A.
Shankar vs. State of Karnataka [(2011 AIAR (Crl) 516], wherein it has
been held that:-

“However, minor contradictions, inconsistencies,
embellishments or improvements on trivial matters
which do not affect the core of the prosecution case,
Should not be made a ground on which the evidence

can be rejected in its entirety. The court has to form
14

Its opinion about the credibility of the witness and
record a finding as to whether his deposition
inspires confidence. "Exaggerations per se do not
render the evidence brittle. But it can be one of the
factors to test credibility of the prosecution version,
when the entire evidence is put in a crucible for
being tested on the touchstone of credibility.”
Therefore, mere marginal variations in_ the
Statements of a witness cannot be dubbed as
improvements as the same may be elaborations of
the statement made by the witness earlier.
"Irrelevant details which do not in any way corrode
the credibility of a witness cannot be labelled as
omissions or contradictions."

32) In the instant case, the core of the case could not be corroded on extensive
cross-examination of the witnesses. On the contrary, the cross-examination of
the witnesses culled out corroboration in the evidence and this has been
discussed in my foregoing discussions.

33)In sync with the evidence of PWs-1, 2, 3, 4, 5 and 6, Smti. Ratna Lohar
testified as PW-7 that the accused person and the victim are known to her.
On the day of the incident, she was working in the tea garden along with the
victim's mother (PW-2). At that time, Sanjay Mahatu went there and informed
that something had happened to 'X' and she should return immediately to her
house. Then she along with PW-2 went to her house and noticed that the
police had already arid in Asha Mahatu’s house. The police took Asha Mahatu

and her daughter to the police station and she accompanied them. Her
15

testimony supports the evidence of PWs-2 and 3 that Mahesh went to their
place of work and informed them about the incident.

34) Thus, it is clear from the evidence of all the witnesses from PW-1 upto PW-2
clearly depicts that the incident was regarding the victim. When there was a
commotion, the police arrived and the villagers also assembled. The evidence
of PWs-1, 2 and 5 clearly depicts that the incident took place within the tea
garden. It can be deduced from the evidence of all the witnesses that the
incident occurred in the accused person’s tea garden where Rajan Rabidas
along with one person was sprinkling pesticide. When Rajen Rabidas heard
the commotion, he went and saw the victim lying on the ground or may be
on the path.

35) At this juncture, I would like to divert the attention towards the Sketch-Map.
‘A’ is shown as the place of occurrence which appears to be a path. B, C and
D are all tea garden encapsulating the place of occurrence. ‘E’ is the house of
Rajen Rabidas which is adjacent to the tea garden. Thus, the prosecution
could prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused committed the
incident on the path which is surrounded by tea garden. The prosecution also
could prove beyond reasonable doubt that Rajen’s house is adjacent to a tea
garden.

36)The MO Dr. Nibedita Shyam testified as PW-8 that on 15-03-16, she
examined the victim 'X' in connection with this case and found the following:

On genital examination: Genital organs were healthy. Vulva is
healthy. Hymen is intact. Vagina and cervix is healthy. Evidence of
injury not detected at the time of examination.

i. Vaginal smears were taken on glass slides from in and

around the vagina;
16

ii. Vaginal swab in normal saline taken which has been
properly leveled, sealed and packed and handed to the
escorting police.

Result of laboratory investigation: Vaginal smear does not show
any spermatozoa.
Radiological finding:

i. X-ray elbow joint (AP view)- Epiphyseal union are not
completed;

ii. X-ray wrist joint (AP view)- Epiphyseal union are not
completed;

iii. | X-ray of shoulder joint (AP view)- Epiphyseal union is not
completed;

iv. X-ray of pelvis (AP view) Epiphiseal union are not
completed.

37)The MO could not detect any injuries on the victim’s body. There is no
allegation of penetrative sexual assault and so no injuries could be detected.

38) The history recorded by the MO, the statement of the victim under Section
161 CrPC and the testimony of the victim is corroborative.

39) The testimony of Sri Sanjay Mahato as PW-9 has also corroborates the fact
that the incident took place on 14-03-16. At about 1:00 pm, he returned from
work and he saw an assembly of people and then he heard from the people
that the accused indulged in eve teasing. The people tied up the accused
and meanwhile, the police arrived and apprehended him.

40) The IO is a formal witness and he conducted investigation.

41)SI Bidyut Dutta testified as PW-10 that on 14-03-16, he was on duty as

Attached Officer at Chabua Police Station. On that day, the OC received an
17

FIR from Sri Ganesh Mahato and he registered Chabua PS Case No. 32/16
under Sections 376/511 IPC, read with Section 4 of POCSO Act and endorsed
him with the investigation. Ext. 2 is the FIR and Ext. 2(2) is the signature of
Promod Phukan (OC). The complainant and the victim were in the police
station along with the accused who was brought by the villagers. As the
accused was assaulted by the villagers, he forwarded him for medical
examination, after he was handed over by the public.

42) This evidence of PW-10 lends corroboration to the evidence of PWs-1, 2, 3, 4,
5, 6, 7 and 9. It is clear from the evidence of the above mentioned witnesses
that the accused was taken to the police station by the villagers and the
victim and the complainant also went to the police station along with them.
Thereafter, the IO recorded the statement of the victim in the police station.

43) PW-10’s evidence further proceeds that the victim was provided preliminary
treatment at Chabua Model Hospital and on the next day, she was forwarded
to Assam Medical College & Hospital at Dibrugarh. On the same day, she was
also forwarded to the Magistrate who recorded her statement. As it was late
at night at the time of lodgment of the ejahar, he went to the place of
occurrence on the next day and prepared the Sketch-Map. On finding prima
facie materials, he submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused person.

44) His cross-examination has been discussed in my foregoing discussions.

45)In view of my foregoing discussions, it is held that the prosecution could
prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused lured the victim towards the
tea garden to show her how manure is sprinkled and thereafter, he
committed sexual assault on the victim. The evidence that he attempted to
commit rape on the victim or to commit penetrative sexual assault, is lacking.

46) It is also pertinent to mention at this juncture that the victim might have not
18

stated before the IO that the accused laid her on the ground and removed
her panty, but the victim stated before the Magistrate that the accused laid
her on the ground and removed her panty and when she raised alarm, the
accused gagged her by her mouth and Rajen came to her rescue when she
screamed. Ext. 1 is her statement and Ext. 1(1) upto Ext. 1(3) are her
signatures.

47)In view of my foregoing discussions, it is thereby held that the statement of
the victim remained uncontradicted and uncorroborated, bearing minor
contradictions which are negligible.

48)I would also like to rely on the decision of Hon’ble Supreme Court of India in
Dattu Ramrao Sakhare vs. State of Maharashtra [(1997) 5 SCC 341],
wherein it has been observed that:-

"In other words even in the absence of oath the evidence
of a child witness can be considered under Section 118 of
the Evidence Act provided that such witness is able to
understand the question and able to give rational answers
thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility
thereof would depend upon the circumstances of each
case. The only precaution which the court should bear in
mind while assessing the evidence of a child witness is
that the witness must be reliable one and his/her
demeanour must be like any other competent witness and
there is no likelihood of being tutored. There is no practice
that in every case the evidence of such a witness be
corroborated before a conviction can be allowed to stand

but, however as a rule of prudence the Court always finds
19

It desirable to have the corroboration to such evidence
from other dependable evidence on record. In the light of
this well settled principle we may proceed to consider the
evidence of Sarubai (P.W.2).”

49) In the instant case, the witness appears to be an intelligent witness. It can be
deciphered from her statement under Section 164 CrPC and her statement in
the Court that she is an intelligent witness and could give rational answers.
Moreover, Section 29 of POCSO Act emphasizes presumption to certain
offences and Section 30 emphasizes presumption of culpable mental state
and the defence of the accused should be that he had no such mental state.
The accused took such a defence.

50) On the inculpatory circumstances arising against him, the accused stated in
his answers under Section 313(1)(b) CrPC that it was a rainy day and when
he went to check the manure, the victim slipped and fell down, because of
the rains and when he tried to protect her, the victim shouted and Rajen
came and he was then falsely entangled with this case.

51)This plea was also reflected through the cross-examination of the hostile
witness (PW-5) who testified in his cross-examination that it was a rainy day
and the kutchha road was slippery and both the accused and the victim were
lying on the ground.

52) However, the accused could not convince that he had no culpable mental
state. The evidence of all the witnesses clearly fastens the guilt on the
accused. There is corroborative evidence against the accused. No overt act
could be attributed to the accused regarding his attempt to commit
penetrative sexual assault, despite the fact that he pulled down the victim's

panty. However, he is held guilty of offence under Section 10 of POCSO Act.
20

He is held guilty of aggravated sexual assault, because the victim was below
12 years of age. It is held that the prosecution could prove beyond
reasonable doubt that the accused committed aggravated penetrative sexual
assault on the victim by pulling down her panty and laying her on the road
and squeezing her breasts. There is also evidence that he gagged her by her
mouth when she scrammed. The direct oral substantive evidence as well as
the circumstances establishes this case against the accused.

53)I have heard the accused on the point of sentence. He has prayed for
leniency. The accused is an old man, aged about 65 years.

54)I have considered the age and antecedent of the accused. Considering the
age of the victim and considering the circumstances of this case, it is held
that this is a diabolic act and the accused deserves punishment. Such act
affects the psyche of the victim.

SENTENCE:

55) The accused Sri Prafulla Gogoi is convicted under Section 10 of the POCSO
Act and is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI in short) for 5
(five) years and to pay a fine of Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees One Thousand) only and
in default of payment of fine, to undergo RI for 1 (one) month. The period of
detention of the accused during investigation and trial is set off with his
custodial sentence.

56) Furnish free copies of judgment to the accused and to the District Magistrate.

57) The victim, who has undergone such an ordeal, deserves compensation. This
case is thereby recommended for compensation to the District Legal Services
Authority, Dibrugarh to decide the quantum of compensation to be awarded

to the victim under the Assam Victim Compensation Scheme, 2012.
21

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 28" day of

November, 2018.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Ze

APPENDIX
POCSO Case No. 32/16

List of witnesses for prosecution:
1. PW-1 The victim 'X';
2. PW-2 Smti. Asha Mahato;
3. PW-3 Sri Ganesh Mahato;
4. PW-4 Sri Mahesh Mahato @ Babatu;
5. PW-5 Sri Rajen Rabidas;
6. PW-6 Sri Jogeswar Mahato;
7. PW-7 Smti. Ratni Lohar;
8. PW-8 Dr. Nibedita Shyam;
9. PW-9 Sri Sanjay Mahato; and
10. PW-10 SI Bidyut Dutta.
List of exhibits for prosecution:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;
3. Ext. 3 Medico-legal Report;
4. Ext. 4 Sketch-Map; and
5. Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet.
List of material exhibits for prosecution: Nil.
List of witnesses for defence: Nil.
List of exhibits for defence: Nil.

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
