IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, NAGAON ::: ASSAM.

Special (POCSO) Case No.-35/2018
U/S-6 of the POCSO Act.

State
- Versus -

Sri Raju Patra
: Accused person.

Present :
Md. A. Rahman, AJS
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Appearance & particulars :-

For the State : Mr. M.J. Neog, Ld. Special Prosecutor.
For the accused person : Mr. R. Ullah, Ld. Legal Aid Counsel.
Charge framed on : 09/08/2018.

Evidence recorded on : 22/10/2018, 26/11/2018,

04/01/2019, 06/03/2019,
25/04/2019, 08/07/2019,
02/08/2019.

Date of recording 313 Cr.P.C. statement : 12/07/2019.

Date of Argument : 06/08/2019.

Date of Judgment : 08/08/2019.

Contd...
UDGMENT

1. Briefly stated the facts of the prosecution case are that
“Miss. Mamoni” (actual name changed), aged around 9(nine) years, is
the only daughter of accused Raju Patra. Due to prolong illness, she
lost her mother when she was 7(seven) years old. Accordingly, she was
staying with his father in a rented house nearby Morikolong Railway
Station, Nagaon. The accused in drunken stated used to commit sexual
intercourse with her during every night. She could not disclose the
occurrence immediately to others because her father threatened her to
finish her life if she divulges the occurrence to others. Unable to bear
with such sexual harassment upon her, she left home and disclosed the
entire occurrence before the employee of Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital
Musstt. Monuwara Begum (PW-2) and Abanita Saikia (PW-4) on
25/04/2017. On the basis of the information of the victim, PW-1 Miss.
Sangeeta Saikia, a counsellor of Nagaon Child Help Line lodged __ Ext..-1
written FIR with the I/C of Morikolong TOP.

2. On the basis of the written Ejahar dated-24/04/2017 lodged
by PW-1 Sangita Saikia, the I/C of Morikolong TOP made GDE No.-378
dated-24/04/2017 and forwarded the same to the O/C of Nagaon Sadar
Police Station for registering a case. Accordingly, Nagaon Sadar P.S.
Case No.-1007/17 was registered u/s-4 of the POCSO Act. PW-8 S.I. Raja
Irshad, I/C of the said TOP took up the investigation of the case.

3. During the course of investigation, I/O S.I. Raja Irshad visited
the place of occurrence, drew Sketch Map and recorded the statements
of the witnesses. He also sent the victim child to Nagaon B.P. Civil
Hospital for her medical examination. He also got recorded the

Contd...
3

statement of the victim girl u/s-164 Cr.PC. During investigation, the
accused was arrested and produced before the court for his judicial
custody. At the conclusion of investigation, police submitted Charge
Sheet against the accused u/s-4 of the POCSO Act.

4. After receiving the Charge Sheet, the instant POCSO case
was registered. Subsequently, the Hon'ble Sessions Judge, Nagaon
made over the case to this court for trial.

B: The accused since the date of arrest was staying in jail
custody. Considering his oral prayer that he is very poor, Mr. R. Ullah, a
Legal Aid Lawyer of DLSA, Nagaon was appointed as Legal Aid Counsel
for the defence.

6. Upon hearing learned Special Prosecutor as well as learned
Legal Aid Counsel and considering the materials on record, charge u/s-
6 of the POCSO Act was framed against the accused. He denied the
charge and claimed to be tried.

7. To prove the case against the accused, prosecution during
the trial examined altogether 8(eight) witnesses including the doctor
who examined the victim child. The accused was examined u/s-313
Cr.P.C. He has denied the allegation brought against him by his
daughter and further pleaded that he slapped her on the relevant night
as she had gone out with her bicycle and returned home at 9 p.m. He
adduced his own evidence.

8. | have heard Mr. M.J. Neog, learned Special Prosecutor as well

Contd...
4

as Mr. R. Ullah, learned Legal Aid Counsel for the defence. | have also
thoroughly and meticulously gone through the evidence and materials
on record.

9. Now the point for determination is as follows :-
Whether the accused committed aggravated penetrative

sexual assault with his minor daughter Mamoni (9 years) during night
time at his rented house and thereby committed an offence punishable
u/s-6 of the POCSO Act ?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF

 

10. Victim Mamoni was examined as PW-3 in this case. She is the
most crucial and vital witness of the prosecution. The accused is her
own father. The charge against her father is very serious and
sensational from the social point of view under the facts and
circumstances. Her evidence needs minute scrutiny and analysis to
ascertain the truth. During the camera trial, her evidence was recorded
in the form of “Question-Answer” as per Section-276(2) Cr.P.C, in order
to get a clear picture of the case. On the date of recording the
evidence, PW-3 was 11 years. As such, no oath was administered to
her. Before recording her evidence, it was ascertained that she was
capable to give rational answers to the questions put to her. Extreme
care has been taken so that prosecution could not ask any leading
question to her. She has deposed that since after death of her mother,
her father used to commit bad work with her on several times during
night time in their rented house nearby Nagaon Railway Station. She
has no any brother or sister. She has categorically stated that her
father committed violence upon her by inserting his pennis inside her
private parts. She could not disclose the occurrence to others because
her father threatened to slash and throw her in Kolong river. Her father

Contd...
5

used to sell country liquor. She came into acquaintance with Geeta,
Sangeeta (PW-1) whom she met while her mother was undergoing
treatment at Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital for more than 7(seven) months.
About one year back, PW-1 and others took her to Nagaon Children
Home from Nagaon Police Station. She disclosed the occurrence to
Geeta and Sangeeta. She has also confirmed that PW-1 and others
accompanied her to her house; but her father was not at home. She
was examined by the doctor at Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital. She was also
produced before the court. Ext.-2 is her statement before the
Magistrate. Ext.-2(1) to Ext.-2(4) are her signatures.

During cross-examination, she stated that she had disclosed
the occurrence to the old woman whom she addressed as 'Nani'. Before
2 / 3 days of lodging the Ejahar, she also disclosed the occurrence to
their landlord Kamalesh and he stated that he would keep her at his
house. She denied the suggestion that she has falsely stated that her
father used to do bad work with her during night time and threatened
her to kill and throw in Kolong river. She has also denied the suggestion
that she in collusion with PW-1 and the Nurses of Nagaon Civil Hospital
lodged the false case against her father.

11. PW-1 Miss. Sangeeta Saikia is the informant of this case. She
has deposed that she lodged the case against Raju Patra who is the
biological father of PW-3. In the month of April, 2017, she received one
telephonic call from Geetamoni Baruah, Counsellor of Drugs Deadiction
Centre, Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital asking her to immediately visit there.
Accordingly, she arrived at Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital. Geetamoni
Baruah introduced PW-3 with her. On being asked, PW-3 stated to her
that she had lost her mother about two years back. Since the death of
her mother, her father Raju Patra used to commit sexual intercourse
with her. She could not disclose the occurrence to others as he
threatened her to kill. She has also stated that about two days back

Contd...
6

during night time her father severely abused her sexually and
committed vigorous sexual intercourse as a result of which she
suffered bleeding injury on her vagina. Under such circumstances, she
had left her house and decided not to return home as she was afraid of
her father. At the time PW-3 was disclosing the occurrence to her,
Monuwara Begum (PW-2), Abanita Saikia (PW-4) and Geetamoni
Baruah were present. PW-1 has further testified that after coming to
know about the occurrence from PW-3, they took the victim girl to her
house; but her father was found absent. Therefore, they came to
Morikolong TOP and informed the occurrence. She has confirmed that
Ext.-1 is the FIR and Ext.-1(1) is her signature.

In cross-examination, she denied the suggestion that her
examination-in-chief is false and they instigated PW-3 to tell against
her father.

12. PW-2 Monuwara Begum is an employee of one NGO. She has
deposed almost in the same line of PW-1. Her evidence was recorded
on 22/10/2018. She has deposed that last year on the relevant day she
found PW-3 was crying in the verandah of Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital. At
that time, Geetamoni Bora and Abanita Saikia (PW-4) who were the
members of DDC, Nagaon were present at the hospital. On being asked
the cause of her cry, she replied tearing her eyes that when she slept,
her father gagged her mouth and committed bad work. PW-3 also
stated to them that as her father had done bad work with her, as such
her undergarment became dirty. She also sustained injury on her
private parts. Accordingly, after coming to know about the occurrence
from PW-3, they made telephonic contact with PW-1 who immediately
came to Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital. Thereafter, she accompanied by
PW-1, Geetamoni Bora and Abanita Saikia went to the house of PW-3 in
front of Nagaon Railway Station. PW-2 further stated that PW-3 had
Shown her wearing apparels in dirty condition. They did not find the

Contd...
7

father of PW-3. She was examined medically at Nagaon B.P. Civil
Hospital and Ejahar was lodged by PW-1.

In cross-examination, she has denied the suggestion that she
is falsely deposing that PW-3 disclosed before them that her father had
sexually abused her.

13. PW-4 Abanita Saikia has also deposed almost the same thing
as deposed by PW-1 and PW-2. She also deposed that in the month of
April, 2017 while she was on duty at Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital, one of
her colleagues Geetamoni Baruah was also with her. At that time, PW-3
entered into her chamber. She knew PW-3 as she was staying in
Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital in connection with treatment of her mother.
On being enquired from PW-3, she replied that her father used to
commit bad work with her during night. Being astonished, she asked
PW-3 as to what was the bad work her father had done with her. She
stated that her father had committed physical relation with her as a
result of which she experienced pain on her private part from which
blood also came out. Again PW-4 asked PW-3 whether she was telling
the truth, she again repeated the same thing to her. Accordingly, she
informed the matter to Dr. Ajit Goswami, I/C of Psychiatric Department
and PW-2 Monuwara Begum. Thereafter, they examined PW-3
physically and informed Nagaon Child Line. Thereafter, they
accompanied by PW-3 went to her house; but they did not find her
father. On being enquired, her neighbours also stated that PW-3 was
sexually abused by her father.

In cross-examination, PW-4 has replied that the mother of
PW-3 expired at Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital. She again visited the
Hospital after 3 / 4 months after expiry of her mother. PW-4 has denied
the suggestion that PW-3 did not make any complaint against her
father before them.

Contd...
14. PW-5 Fulzari Devi (57 years) is the next door neighbour of
PW-3. She has deposed that about 2(two) years back PW-3 along with
her father was staying in a rented house adjacent to her house. On a
certain morning at around 9 a.m, PW-3 said to her, “My father has done
bad work with me.” She did not give much importance to the said
version of PW-3. On the same day, PW-3 went to Nagaon Civil Hospital.
Thereafter, some women accompanied by PW-3 came and enquired
about the occurrence. Accordingly, she replied that PW-3 had disclosed
about the occurrence to her in the morning.

15. PW-6 Shanti Devi is another neighbour of PW-3. She has
deposed that about 2(two) years back on a certain afternoon at about
3 p.m., PW-3 rolling tear stated that her father in drunk committed bad
work with her during night time.

16. PW-7 Dr. Julina Hussain has deposed that on 24/04/2017, she
was posted at Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital as Pathologist. On that day,
she examined Nandini Patra, D/O- Raju Patra, R/O- Morikolong Railway
Station, PS- Nagaon Sadar, District- Nagaon (Assam), in reference to
Morikolong TOP G.D.E. No.-378, on being escorted by H.C. Pobin Bora,
in presence of ANM Runu Jamindar.

On examination, PW-7 found the following :-
Identification Marks -
(a) One mole on the right side of neck.

(b) One mole on right cheek.

Height - 132 Cms. Weight - 25 Kgs.
Teeth - 14/13. Breast - Not fully developed.
Auxiliary Hair - Not fully developed.

Contd...
Pubic Hair - Not fully developed. Hymen - absent.

Vaginal Injury - Absent. Marks of violence - Absent.
Clothings - Frock. LMP - Puberty not attained.
Smear examination vide Regd. No. , Lab No.-157, reported

by PW-7 shows - No Spermatozoa seen in the vaginal smear.

X-Ray examination of the right wrist, elbow and iliac crest vide
No.5060 dated-25/04/2017 reported by Radiologist Dr. S. Sarma
shows radiological age as 9 - 11 (nine to eleven) years.

Right Wrist joints - Epiphysis of proximal and distal end of radius
and ulna are not fused.

Right Elbow joints - Epiphysis of proximal and distal end of humerus
are not fused. Pisiform has appeared.

Right Iliac Crest - Epiphysis of right iliac crest is not fused.

Urine for pregnancy test- Not done.
Ultrasonography of Abdomen - Not done.

The doctor (PW-7) has opined the following :
1) There is evidence of sexual abuse / assault (as hymen is
absent).
2) There is no evidence of recent injury on her private parts.
3) Age 9 - 11 (nine to eleven) years according to Radiologist.

PW-7 has testified that Ext.-3 is the medical report whereon
Ext.-3(1) is her signature.

In cross-examination, PW-7 has stated that before attaining
puberty, there can be no cause for absence of hymen of a girl without
any penetrative injury. She denied the suggestion that hymen may be
absent by falling on hard substance due to playing games or accident.

17. PW-8 S.I. Raja Irshad being the I/O has deposed giving details

Contd...
10

of investigation. After receiving the FIR, he made Morikolong TOP
G.D.E. No.-378, dated-24/04/2017 at 2:40 p.m. and took up
investigation of the case after forwarding the FIR to the O/C of Nagaon
Sadar Police Station. He has deposed that on the same day, he sent
the victim to Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital for her medical examination. He
also visited the place of occurrence and drew Ext.-4 Sketch Map. He
also recorded the statement of Monuwara Begum, Fulzari Devi, Shanti
Devi and Abanita Saikia. At the time of his visit, he did not find the
accused; but at about 6:45 p.m. on the same day he apprehended the
accused from Morikolong Railway Track. On the relevant night, he kept
PW-3 at Nagaon State Home for her custody. On the next day, she was
produced before the Magistrate for recording her statement. He has
further testified that having collected the medical examination report
of the victim, he submitted Ext.-5 Charge Sheet against accused Raju
Patra u/s-4 of the POCSO Act on 31/05/2017. Ext.-5(1) is his signature.

18. DW-1 Raju Patra has deposed that his wife died in the year
2016 while undergoing treatment at Nagaon B.P. Civil Hospital. During
the relevant time, his daughter (PW-3) was staying with her mother at
the hospital. After death of his wife, his daughter (PW-3) used to stay
with Fulzari Devi adjacent to his rented house. His daughter used to go
out with her bicycle during night time and did not return till 9 / 10 p.m.
As such he cautioned his daughter for which she brought false
allegation against him.

During cross-examination, he admitted that during night
time, he used to return home in drunken state consuming country
liquor. Shanti Devi (PW-6) was residing in the room adjacent to his
rented house. He has distinctly stated that his daughter (PW-3) loved
him very much. As such, she could not give any false allegation against
him. Since before two days of lodging the Ejahar, his daughter was not
with him.

Contd...
11

19. APPRECIATION OF EVIDENCE :-

As per Ext.-1 FIR, the occurrence took place in the month of
April, 2017. The age of the victim child (PW-3) at the relevant time of
occurrence is required to be determined at first. PW-3 has deposed
before the court on 26/11/2018 and she stated her age to be 11 years.
PW-3 in her Ext.-2 statement before Magistrate stated her age as
Q(nine) years at the relevant time of occurrence. PW-7 Julina Hussain
on the basis of radiological examination of the wrist joint, elbow joint
and iliac crest has opined that the age of PW-3 was around 9-11 years
on 25-04-2017 being the date of her medical examination. The defence
side did not challenge the age of PW-3. Accordingly, from the above
discussion, it is held that PW-3 was around 9-11 years at the relevant
time of occurrence. In the case of Jayamala -Vs- Home Secretary
Jammu & Kashmir (AIR 1982 SC-1297), the Hon'ble Supreme Court held
that ossification test is no doubt a surer test but margin of error is two
years on either side. So, by applying the ratio of the said case, even if
the age of PW-3 on the date of her examination is taken as 13 years,
but the occurrence of committing sexual intercourse upon her started
taking place since after death of her mother. DW-1 has admitted that
his wife expired in 2016. That being so, palpably PW-3 was below 12
years at the time of first occurrence. Thus, undoubtedly PW-3 was a
victim as defined u/s-2(d) of the POCSO Act at the relevant time of
occurrence. The oral testimony of PW-3 has clearly shows that since
after death of her mother, her accused father during night time used to
commit sexual intercourse with her after removing her inner garment
On several occasions. She could not disclose the occurrence
immediately to others because her father threatened her to kill if she
disclosed the occurrence to others. Unfortunately, she was the only
child of her parents and she became alone after death of her mother
due to illness. The aforesaid medical evidence of PW-7 and Ext.-3
clearly show that hymen of PW-3 was absent. PW-7 has clearly stated

Contd...
12

that the hymen of PW-3 at her tender age was lost because of sexual
assault / violence. During cross-examination, PW-3 was not given any
suggestion that she lost her hymen on account of playing games or
falling on hard substance. The defence side during cross-examination
of PW-7 has made it clear that before attaining puberty without
penetrative injury there can be no cause for absence of hymen of the
girl. Thus, the medical evidence also corroborates PW-3 that she was
subjected to forcible sexual intercourse. On scrutiny of the evidence of
PW-3 as a whole, there appears nothing to show that she was tutored
or she falsely deposed against her father. The oral testimony of PW-3 is
also corroborated by her Ext.-2 statement. After the death of her
mother, PW-3 being the only daughter she was expecting security,
care, love and affection from her accused father. Relation between the
father and the daughter is a divine relation. Under the above
circumstances, PW-3 could not be expected to falsely implicate her
father in the heinous crime of committing repeated sexual assault upon
her. PW-1, PW-2, PW-4, PW-5 and PW-6 also corroborates of the
evidence of PW-3 that she disclosed the occurrence of committing
sexual assault upon her by her accused father. It appears that PW-3
being traumatised both physically and mentally disgusted with such
unexpected and abnormal behaviour and conduct of her accused
father in committing sexual intercourse with her taking advantage of
her loneliness at home, she fled away from her house and reported
the occurrence to the aforesaid ladies. The admission of DW-1 that he
used to return home during night time in drunken state consuming
country liquor also supports the prosecution case. Further it is clear
from his testimony that PW-3 loved him very much. As such, she could
not bring any false allegation against him. Really a daughter who is
naturally having more love, affection and emotional attachment with
her father cannot be expected to bring wild and serious allegation of
committing sexual violence upon her. Had the allegation of committing
sexual assault upon PW-3 by DW-1 were not true, she would not have
deposed against her father. She being a minor daughter having her

Contd...
13

only father in this world as her nearest and dearest, would not have
liked to see him in prison unless he had done such unexpected and
unusual sexual violence upon her. Interestingly, during the cross-
examination of PW-3, the defence side did not give her any suggestion
that she used to go outside her house during night time and returned
late for which her father rebuked her and as such she lodged the false
case. The evidence of DW-1 that PW-3 brought false allegation against
him is afterthought. It has been already proved from oral testimony of
PW-3 and medical evidence that she was subjected to sexual
intercourse as a result of which she had lost her hymen at the age of
9 / 10 years.

20. The prosecution has proved beyond all reasonable doubt by
adducing oral and documentary evidence that the accused committed
penetrative sexual assault upon PW-3. Therefore, the statutory
presumption u/s-29 of the POCSO Act enables the court to hold that the
accused committed the offence u/s-5 of the Act. The defence side has
failed to rebut the presumption to prove the contrary.

21. The above discussion and observation lead to the irresistible
conclusion that accused Raju Patra being the father of the victim girl
(PW-3) below 12 years committed penetrative sexual assault upon her.
Committing penetrative sexual assault on the child more than once or
repeatedly and committing penetrative sexual assault on a child below
twelve years fall in the category of aggravated penetrative sexual u/s-
5(/) & 5(m ) of the POCSO Act respectively. Accordingly, | hold that the
accused has committed the offence of aggravated penetrative sexual
assault. Hence, he is convicted u/s-6 of the POCSO Act.

22. Victim's compensation :- PW-3 at her early childhood was

Contd...
14

subjected to repeated sexual assault by her own father. She was
traumatised both physically and mentally due to the heinous crime
committed upon her. Unable to bear with the repeated commission of
the violence upon her, she fled away from her house. She has suffered
loss and injury tremendously. She became homeless following the
occurrence. Now, she is taking shelter at Nagaon Children Home.
Unfortunately, she has none of her own in this world to take care and
ensure her security and welfare. Considering all the above aspects, in
exercise of discretion as per Rule-7(2) of the Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Rule, 2012, it is recommended that PW-3 be paid
adequate, appropriate and fair compensation for her future, education,
welfare and rehabilitation as per Notification No. PLA.524/2015/Pt/190
(ECF-38361) dated- 1 February, 2019 of the Government of Assam.
Under the facts and circumstances of the case and considering her
plight following the crime, this court opines that she deserves to get
compensation in the higher side stipulated in the said notification of
the Government of Assam. The District Legal Services Authority,
Nagaon, in consultation with the Superintendent of Children Home,
Nagaon and the victim (PW-3), shall open a bank account in her name
in any Nationalised Bank. The compensation amount shall be deposited
in the bank account so opened in the name of PW-3 within a period of
two months from the date of receipt of this Judgment.

23. Before parting with the Judgment, this court appreciates the
legal assistance rendered by Mr. R. Ullah, learned legal aid counsel for
the accused during the trial. He is entitled to his remuneration as per
existing rule and the same shall be paid by the Secretary, DLSA,
Nagaon.

24. A copy of this Judgment be sent each to the Secretary,
District Legal Services Authority, Nagaon and the District Magistrate,

Contd...
15

Nagaon for information.

25. A certified copy of this Judgment be furnished forthwith free
of cost to the accused immediately.

26. The order on sentence shall be an integral part of this
Judgment.
27. The Sessions case is disposed of accordingly.

Judgment is pronounced = and
delivered in the open Court under the seal
of this Court and on my signature on this
8" day of August, 2019.

Dictated & corrected by me.
Special Judge, Nagaon.
Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
16

APPENDIX :-

Oral evidence :-

PW-1 Miss. Sangeeta Saikia.
PW-2 Musstt. Monuwara Begum.
PW-3 Miss. Nandini Patra.

PW-4 Smti. Abanita Saikia.

PW-5 Smti. Fulzari Devi.

PW-6 Smti. Shanti Devi.

PW-7 Dr. Julina Hussain.

PW-8 S.I. Raja Irshad.

DW-1 Raju Patra.

Documentary evidence :-

Ext.-1 Ejahar.

Ext.-2 Statement of the victim recorded by Magistrate u/s-164
GARG.

Ext.-3 Medical Report.

Ext.-4 Sketch Map.

Ext.-5 Charge Sheet.

Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
17

ORDER ON SENTENCE

Dated :-09/08/2019.

Accused Raju Patra who has already been convicted u/s-6 of
the POCSO Act vide Judgment dated-08/08/2019 has been produced
from jail custody. He is heard on the quantum of sentence u/s-235(2)
Cr.P.C. Mr. M.J. Neog, learned Special Prosecutor has submitted that
under the factual matrix of the case, no leniency should be shown to
the accused and he deserves maximum punishment prescribed u/s-6 of
the POCSO Act.

It is well settled that punishment must be proportionate to
the nature and gravity of the offence. In this case, the accused being
the own father of his minor daughter (PW-3) committed penetrative
sexual assault upon her repeatedly during night time taking advantage
of the death of his wife. He did not think for a moment that he is the
only person in this world to look after care, security and welfare of his
daughter. In stead of playing the role of a savior to his daughter, he
became the perpetrator of the crime and damaged her chastity at her
childhood days. The facts and circumstances of the case show that it is
an exceptional case of extreme animalism exhibited by the accused
father to his minor daughter. After death of her mother, the accused
father ought to have been more caring for love, attention and security
of his daughter. She has lost all trust upon him and ultimately because
of repeated sexual assault, she had to flee away from her house and
compel to take shelter in Nagaon Children Home. Therefore,
considering all the aspects, | find that all the circumstances are
aggravating circumstances in which the crime was committed by the
accused and mitigating circumstance is nil. When the accused has not
spared the own minor daughter in order to satisfy his lust, the other
female would not be saved in his company. Therefore, | find that the

accused deserves maximum punishment prescribed u/s-6 of the

Contd...
18

POCSO Act. Accordingly, accused Raju Patra is sentenced to
undergo R.I. for life and fine of Rs.2000/- (Rupees two
thousand), in default to undergo further R.1I. for 6(six) months.
There shall be no remission of his sentence.

The accused person be sent to the jail custody forthwith to
serve the sentence.

Special Judge, Nagaon.

Contd...
