IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE :: :: CACHAR :: SILCHAR.
Special (POCSO) Case No.19 of 2017.
(U/S 366 IPC/ Sec.4 of POCSO Act)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM ......cc.cccccccctccseeeeeaeeesaesssseeesesseeeeeeees Complainant.
-Versus-
RajeSh NOMOSUCa ........ccccccccceessssssecensseeneesssseeeeeenteneeees Accused.
Charge framed On t-.........c:ccccccccccsssssstsececsssseseeeeeeeeeseesseteees 18/9/17
P.WS.CXAMINGCON o.oo... ccceccccccccsesceeeeceeseeeeueeueeeeeeeueeeeeeeeeeens 1/6/19
Statement of accused persons recorded U/S 313 Cr.P.C. on: ...1/6/19.
Argument heard On tr ........cccccececeeeceeeeeessseeeeseeesesaeeseesessseeaes 1/6/19.
Judgment pronounced and delivered ON!-.........ccceceseeeeeeees 1/6/19.
Counsel Appeared:
For the State : Mr. R.M. Das, Ld. P.P.
For the Accused : Mr. N.Nag, the Ld.Advocate
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 6.8.15 informant

Anil Das lodged an ejahar with the in charge Borkhola PS to the
effect that accused Shibani Namasudra had taken the daughter of the
informant for a visit to her house and from her house and from there
accused Rajesh Namasudra kidnapped her and kept her confined in
his house. Thereafter informant with help of others somehow had
taken his daughter back from the house of the sister of the accused
to his house. Subsequently, on the intervening night of 04.08.15 and
05.08.15 at about 1 a.m. the accused Rajesh Nomosudra kidnapped
the victim on entering into the house of the informant.

On receipt of the same a regular P.S. case was registered and
after investigation the police submitted charge sheet against accused
u/s 366 IPC rw. section 6 of POCSO Act.

2. The offence U/S 366 of IPC r/w section 6 of POCSO Act being
exclusively triable by the Court of Sessions, learned Additional CJM,
Cachar, Silchar committed the case and accordingly this Sessions case

was registered. In due course, upon appearance of the accused
Specal Pocso Case No.19/ 17

person and after hearing both sides my ld. Predecessor in office
framed formal charge U/S 366 IPC / Sec.4 of POCSO Act against
Rajesh Nomosudra. The charge having been read over and explained,
the accused person pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

3. Point for determination :

(i) Whether the accused on the intervening night of 04.08.15 and
05.08.15 at about 1 a.m. kidnapped the victim, as alleged ?

(ii) Whether thereafter the accused committed penetrative
sexual assault on the victim minor daughter of the complainant, as
alleged ?

4. In support of the case the prosecution examined as many as
six witnesses including the informant and the victim. Statement of the
accrued person is recorded U/S 313 Cr.P.C. The accused declined to
adduce evidence.

5. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have

also heard the Id.counsel for both the parties.

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF

6. Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the
accused person as mentioned in point for determination.

7. P.W.3 Jhuma Das, the victim, who is the principal witness of
this case deposed without any implication to the accused that she
eloped with accused out of love affairs and after that her father
lodged an FIR with the police. She was recovered from the house

of the accused by the police and after staying for a period of two

years again she fled away and started to live in the house of the
Specal Pocso Case No.19/ 17

accused. She further deposed that after her first eloping away
with the accused they got married at Shiv Mandir. However,
about 3 / 4 months her marriage was solemnized socially with the
accused at his residence. In her cross examination she stated that
she has been residing with the accused as his wife and she has no
grievance against the accused.

8. PW-1 Anil Das, the father of the victim deposed that about
two years back one day the victim fled away with the accused
and then he lodged the FIR. Police recovered the victim and
produced her before the court and again about 20 days back his
daughter went to the house of the accused and is residing there.
He further deposed that at the material time the age of her
daughter was 14 years. In his cross examination, PW-1 stated that
victim did not tell anything against the accused. He submitted
one photocopy of school certificate of the victim along with the
FIR and he cannot say whether in the said certificate age of the
victim as on 31/12.2007 is mentioned as 11 years.

9. PW- 4 in the same manner as that of PW-1 deposed that their
daughter PW-3 went away from their house while she was 14
years of age and then her husband PW-1 lodged an ejahar and
thereafter she was recovered. After recovery she again went
away with the accused in his house. Police seized school certificate
and other document in connection with the case. In her cross
examination she stated that her daughter voluntarily went with
the accused on both the occasions and now accused and her
daughter have been residing as husband and wife and their
marriage has been socially performed. She further stated that it

might be that the age her daughter is 20 years now and they have
Specal Pocso Case No.19/ 17

no grievance against the accused.

10. PW-2, Anjan Patoa , husband of the sister of the victim also
deposed in the same manner that victim once went away with the
accused and thereafter she again after few days went away with
the accused. He stated in his cross examination that it is true
that victim at her own will went with the accused.

11. PBW.5 Suma Patowa , the sister of the victim deposed that at
the relevant time the victim was found missing from her bed and
subsequently their father lodged an FIR and victim was recovered.
She further deposed that victim is now residing in the house of
the accused as his wife. In her cross examination PW-5 she
stated that accused had love affairs with the victim and the victim
had voluntarily left her house.

12. PW-6 Mitun Roy deposed in his evidence that the informant
gave his daughter the victim in marriage with the accused. He
stated in his cross examination that the victim went with the
accused out of her own accord.

13. Appreciating the evidence on record more particularly the
evidence of the prime witness the victim girl PW-1 it appears that
she went to the house of the accused voluntarily and, according
to PW-3 the victim, after her first eloping away with the accused
they got married at Shiv Mandir. Summing up all the evidences of
the witnesses it comes to the light that victim at her own will went
away with the accused and thereafter victim had married off with
the accused and presently they are residing as husband and wife
and there is no grievance from the parents of the victim in this
respect. From the evidence of the victim it appears that at the

relevant time she was major as she had stated her present age
Specal Pocso Case No.19/ 17

i.e. the age at the time of deposition as 21 years. Prosecution side
also did not prove any certificate to show that the victim was
minor at the time of alleged occurrence.
14. From the deposition of the prosecution witnesses including
the key witness the victim , it appears that they did not at all
implicate the accused person in the alleged offence of kidnapping
and penetrative sexual assault; Rather the victim PW-3
categorically stated in her cross examination that she has been
residing with the accused as his wife and she has no grievance
against the accused.
15. Upon consideration of all above the aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/s 366 of IPC /
Sec.4 of POCSO Act against accused.
16. In view of the above, accused is not held guilty and stands
acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty
forthwith. Bail bond stands discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on
this the 1° of June, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee,
Stenographer Gr. I.
Specal Pocso Case No.19/ 17

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR,SILCHAR
Spel POPCSO case No.19 of 2017.

APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

PW. 1 — Anil Das

PW, 2 — Anjan Patoa
P.W. 3 — Jhuma Das
PW. 4 — Kushum Das
P.W. 5 — Suma Patowa
P.W. 6 — Mitun Roy

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -Nil

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
