1

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.

Special P.O.C.S.O. Act CASE NO. 26 OF 2016
Under Section 376 I|.P.C R/W Section 4 of P.O.C.S.O. Act,2012
Present:- Smti. C. R. Goswami, A.J.S.,

Special Judge, Barpeta

State of Assam.

-Versus-

Shahjahan Ali ...... Accused.

APPEARANCE

For the Prosecution : Mr. Lolit Ch. Nath, learned PP.
For the accused : Aynal Hoque, learned Advocate.
Evidence recorded on : 12.06.2017, 02.07.2018
Argument heard on : 02.07.2018,
Judgment delivered on : 02.07.2018.

} U D G M _ E N T

1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that one Rashida Parbin
lodged an FIR alleging that accused Shahjahan Ali, for last one year tried
to love her and also tried give her cosmetics and other things but she did
not inform those matters to her family members. About 3 months ago, she
married to another boy. Then accused Shahjahan Ali informed about their
relation in the matrimonial house of the informant and so her husband

divorced her. On 06.03.2015, she had gone to the house of her maternal
2

aunty and there, taking advantage of the absence of the other family
members, the accused person committed rape on her. Though accused
Shahjahan Ali assured to marry her, but he left the house. Then she
reported the matter to her family members and her family members
informed the same to Suleman Ali. Suleman Ali assured to hold a meeting,
but Suleman Ali and Saddam Hussain, making a conspiracy, kept
Shahjahan Ali away from his house.

2. On the basis of the F.I.R. police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation submitted charge
sheet against accused Shahjahan Ali and Saddam Hussain under section
120(b)/376/121(i)/34 IPC R/W section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.

3. The accused persons appeared before this court, copies were
furnished to them and after hearing both the parties charge was framed
against the accused Shahjahan Ali person under section 376 I.P.C read
with section 4 of POCSO Act. Charge was read over and clearly explained
to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.
However, as the case diary does not disclose any material against the
accused Saddam Hussain, he is discharged and set at liberty.

4. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined as many
as 4(four) witnesses including the medical officer. Examination of the
accused person under section 313 Cr.P.C. is dispensed with.

5. Points for determination:-

Whether the accused person on 06.03.2015 at noon at
Satrakanara 15 No. Seat, within the jurisdiction of Baghbar Police Station
District Barpeta,..........

i) Committed rape on the informant/victim Rashida Parbin ?
ii) Committed sexual assault on Rashida Parbin who is a minor

Discussion, decision and reasons thereof

 

6. According to the FIR, the alleged date of occurrence is
3

06.03.2015. The FIR was lodged on 07.04.2015 and the victim was
examined the M.O. on 24.04.2015. The M.O. opined that the age of the
victim was above 14 years and below 16 years and she did not find any
evidence of recent sexual intercourse on the victim.
7. The victim as well as the informant is examined as PW2. She
has stated that the accused person is her present husband. They loved
each other. But her parents refused to give her marriage with the accused
person and performed her marriage with one Idrish. But the accused
person informed Idrish and his family members about their love affairs
and then Idrish divorced her. Then her father called a bichar against the
accused person. But the accused person fled away. Then as per advice of
the village people, she filed the case. After one month of filing of the case,
the accused person married her. They are now living as husband and wife
and out of their wedlock a female child was born. While she lodged the
FIR, police produced her before the Medical Officer for examination and
also before Magistrate for recording her statement. She made the
statement against the accused person to take revenge against him.
Except the breaking of marital life in between her and Idrish, nothing was
done by the accused person.

In cross examination, she has stated that no such occurrence
took place as narrated in the FIR.
8. The maternal aunt of the victim Niljan Nessa as PW3 has
deposed that the informant/victim is her niece and the accused is her
nephew. Now the informant is the wife of the accused. Initially, the
informant was married to one Idrish, but as divorced took place in
between them, accused married the victim. This case is filed against the
accused as he broke up the marriage in between the informant and Idrish.
Now, the informant and the accused are living as husband and wife and
out of their wedlock, a female child is born. Except this, she knows
nothing.
9. One Amir Ali, husband of PW3, has deposed as PW4 that the
4

accused person is his nephew. The victim is the wife of the accused. The
victim was married by one Idrish. Prior to that accused and the victim
loved each other. The accused person broke up the marriage in between
Idrish and the victim. So, to take revenge, the victim lodged the FIR. After
one month of lodging the case, the accused married the victim. Now, they
are living as husband and wife.

10. From the above discussions of the evidences of the
prosecution witnesses, it is found that the victim herself has totally
negated the occurrence allegedly took place 06.03.2015. She and PW3 &
4 have clearly stated that the victim was married by one Idrish, but prior
to that the victim and the accused loved each other. The accused broke
up the marriage in between the victim and lIdrish and hence the
informant/victim filed this case and thereafter got married. The victim has
not made a single whisper regarding commission of rape by the accused
person on her. Furthermore, though according to the medical evidence,
the age of the victim was above 14 years and below 16 years, but the
victim has mentioned her age as 22 years. Then in the year 2015, her age
was more than 18 years. In her statement, recorded u/s 164 CrPC also she
mentioned her age as 17 years. At the time of occurrence she was
married woman. Prosecution has not adduced any documentary to
ascertain the age of the victim. Therefore, as the victim herself has
contradicted her own version regarding the age, and as the medical
evidence has also not supported her version, her age is could be
ascertained. Therefore, it can not be held beyond all reasonable doubt
that at the time of occurrence, the age of the victim was more than 18
years.

11. Under the above facts and circumstances, it is clear that the
prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of the accused person for
any offence either under section 376 I.P.C or under section 4 of POCSO
Act, 2012. Therefore the accused person is acquitted and set at liberty.
12. Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety are
5

extended for another period of six months from the date of this judgment
under section 437-A Cr.P.C.

13. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section 365
Cr.P.C.

14. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 2nd day
of July, 2018.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-

(Smti. C. R. Goswami) (Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta.
APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 = Medical Officer Dr. Anima Boro,
P.W.2 = Rasida Parbin, the informant,
P.W.3 = Mst Niljan Nessa,

P.W.4 = Amir Ali.

(B) Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.1 = Medical Report,

Ext.1(1) = Signature of the M.O.,

Ext.2 = Ejahar,

Ext.2(1),2(2),

2(3), 2(4) = Signature of Miss Rashida Parbin,

Ext. 3 = Statement of u/s 164 CrPC,

Ext.3(1) & 3(2) = Signature of the victim Miss Rashida Parbin,

(C) Defence witnesses:Nil.
(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.
(E) Court witnesses:Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil.

Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
