IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 06 OF 2018
(G.R. Case No. 24 of 2018)
Borholla P.S. Case No. 07 of 2018

Transmitting Magistrate:-

Sri Debasish Bora,

In-charge, Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate,
Titabar Sub-Division,

Jorhat District

State of Assam

-Versus-

Sri Motilal Mala,

Son of Late Manglo Mala,

Resident of Mukti Nagar,

P.S. Borholla,

District-Jorhat. .... Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P., Jorhat

For the Accused: Sri Deep Ranjan Chetia, Learned Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 354 [A] OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 4 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM

SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 29-03-2018

Date of prosecution evidence : 23-04-2018; 16-05-2018; 12-06-2018;
& 21-07-2018

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 29-10-2018

Date of Argument : 27-12-2018 & 19-01-2019

Date of Judgment : 21-01-2019

SPECIAL CASE NO. 06 OF 2018
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Borholla P.S. Case No.
07/2018 under Section 354 [A] of IPC read with Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012 was registered on
the basis of an F.I.R. lodged by Sri Keshab Gogoi, father of the victim girl,
hereinafter to be referred as [X].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 16/01/2018 [Exhibit-3] the
informant Sri Keshab Gogoi [PW-3] who is the father of the victim girl [X]
alleged, /nter-alia, that on the same day at about 2.00 P.M. while his daughter
who was aged about 11 years was residing alone in the house at that time the
accused arrived at his house compound and showed his private part after
undressing his pant to the victim. It is further alleged by the informant that the
accused also touched her private part with his hand, for which, she felt pain.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the Officer-in-charge,
Borholla P.S., the same was registered as Borholla P.S. Case No. 07/2018
under Section 354 [A] of IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation, the victim girl was medically
examined by the doctor, her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was also
recorded by the learned Magistrate. Police, on completion of investigation, filed
charge-sheet in the case against the above named accused Motilal Mala u/S. 354
[A] of IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences
Act, 2012 vide Charge-sheet No. 08/2018 dated 31/01/2018.

2). The In-charge Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Titabar Sub-Division,
District-Jorhat, transmitted the case to this Court for trial. Copy was furnished to

the accused, in due course.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submission of the learned counsel for
the accused and the prosecution in this behalf, I found sufficient ground to frame
charge against the accused under Section 354 [A] of IPC read with Section 4 of

The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which were read

SPECIAL CASE NO. 06 OF 2018
over and explained to the accused, to which, the accused pleaded not guilty and

claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, O08 [eight] numbers of witnesses
including the victim, her parent, the Medical Officer and the I.O. were examined,
on behalf of the prosecution, to prove the charge u/S. 354 [A] of IPC read with
Section 4 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 against
the accused.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. and the accused stated that the victim,
on the date of incident visited his house premise and watched television. When
he witnessed the victim watching television in his residence he told the victim to
go for her study and not to watch television. The informant had lodged false
against him through his daughter. The accused pleaded innocence. One witness

was adduced by the accused in his defence to substantiate his claim.

5). I have heard Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public Prosecutor
for the State as well as Sri Deep Ranjan Chetia, learned Defence Counsel for the
accused, who is facing trial, for commission of offence u/S. 354 [A] of IPC read
with Section 4 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on 16/01/2018 the accused, in absence of the family
members of informant arrived at his residence and showed his
penis to the minor daughter of the informant and thereafter
touched her private part with his hand with the intent of
outraging or knowing it to be likely that he will outrage her
modesty and thereby committed an offence punishable under
Section 354 [A] IPC?

2) Whether on the date of occurrence the accused, committed
penetrative sexual assault upon the daughter of informant and
thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 4 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

SPECIAL CASE NO. 06 OF 2018
DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

7). First of all, let me examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of
the witnesses along with the relevant documents.

[PW-1] is the victim [X] of the instant case who is the star
witness to the incident. She deposed in her testimony that on the date of
incident she visited accused’s house to watch television. At that time the accused
was residing alone in the house. It is further version of the victim that the
accused grabbed her hair and, in turn, she told before the later that she arrived
at his house to watch television. At that time the accused slapped her for not
studying in her house. Further version of the victim is that she gave statement
before the Magistrate vide Exhibit-1 wherein Exhibit-1 [1] and Exhibit-1 [2] are
her signatures. The victim stated that she gave statement before the Magistrate
where she disclosed that on the relevant day the accused arrived at her
residence to return back the loan amount which he [accused] took from her
father. Thereafter, the accused showed her private part and also pressed her
buttock. When she cried then the accused fled away from her residence. She was
produced before a doctor for medical check-up.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side stated that
she narrated the incident before her mother about the misbehavior of the
accused done to her after twenty minutes of the incident. The victim further
stated that she did not tell before her mother that accused grabbed her hair and

also slapped her for visiting his house to watch television and for not studying.

8). PW-2 is Smt. Niru Gogoi who is the mother of victim [PW-1]. This
witness during her deposition in Court stated that on the date of incident she
came out of her house. After twenty minutes she returned back home. She came
to know from her daughter that the accused visited their house to return back
the loan amount. Thereafter, the later showed his private part to the victim and
also pressed her buttocks, for which, she cried and then accused fled away from
their house. It is further version of this witness that during investigation police
seized one school certificate of her minor daughter vide Exhibit-2 wherein
Exhibit-2 [1] is her signature.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 06 OF 2018
During cross-examination, this witness stated that her daughter [PW-
1] stated before her that prior to the incident when she went to the house of
accused to watch television the accused grabbed her hair and slapped her for
only watching television and not studying. She denied defence suggestion that
later part of the story has been falsely alleged by her. She categorically stated

that there was no quarrel with the accused prior to the incident.

9). The evidence of Sri Keshab Gogoi [PW-3] who is the father of
victim-cum-informant of the case is in the same line as that of his ejahar
[Exhibit-3] wherein Exhibit-3 [1] is his signature. This witness further stated that
during investigation police seized the school certificate of his daughter vide
seizure-list [Exhibit-2] wherein Exhibit-2 [2] is his signature. Exhibit-4 is the
Zimmanama wherein Exhibit-4 [1] is his relevant signature.

During cross-examination by defence side, this witness categorically
stated that he did not ask anything about the incident and also did not ask his
daughter whether she told the ejahar writer as per the statement written in the

ejahar.

10). The evidence of Smt. Joymati Bharali [PW-4] who is neighbour of
the informant as well as accused is to the effect that on the next day of incident
she came to know that the accused was taken to the police station. She came to
know from the villagers that the later had committed rape upon the victim on the
previous day.

During cross-examination, she stated that accused used to reside
with his son and wife. This witness categorically stated that she does not know

anything about the incident.

11). PW-5 is Dr. Amrita Nath. Her evidence is to the effect that on
17/01/2018 while she was posted at Jorhat Medical College & Hospital as Lady
Medical Officer on duty, at that time she examined the victim on police
requisition in connection with Borholla P.S. Case No. 07/2018 under Section 354-
A of IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences

Act, 2012. On examination, she found the victim to be above 10 years and below

SPECIAL CASE NO. 06 OF 2018
12 years; evidence of recent sexual intercourse not detected over her body and
there was no evidence of injury on the body of victim. She exhibited her report
as Exhibit-5 and her signatures thereon as Exhibit-5 [1] to Exhibit-5 [3].

This witness during cross-examination stated that on the basis of
radiological report she had determined the age of victim. She confirmed that as
per physical, dental, laboratory and radiological examination they can detect the

age of victim. The doctor denied that her report is not a conclusive report.

12). Sri Nagen Mala [PW-6] who is the son of accused Motilal Mala
stated that on the date of incident the victim girl was watching television at their
house. His father, i.e., the accused, told them to go to their home and study.
After sometime the father of victim came in a drunken condition and threatened
them that he will lodge case against the accused.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side admitted that
he was present in his residence and was chewing pan leaves and he found the
victim present in his house watching television with two of his nephews. His
father, i.e., the accused touched the hair of victim and asked her to leave their

house.

13). Evidence of Sri Chiran Jyoti Gogoi [PW-7] neighbour of victim, is
to the effect that after the incident police visited his house and asked him
whether he knows anything about the incident. To the query of police, he stated
that he does not know anything about the incident. Further, he does not have
any personal knowledge about the incident.

Defence side declined to cross-examine this witness in all material

particular.

14). PW-S8 is Sri Deba Jyoti Phukan who is the investigating officer of
the instant case. This witness deposed about the routine steps taken by him
during investigation of the case. This witness further stated that he visited the
place of occurrence and drew Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index
vide Exhibit-6 wherein Exhibit-6 [1] is his signature. Accused was arrested in

connection with the case. He also seized the school certificate of the victim from

SPECIAL CASE NO. 06 OF 2018
her parent vide seizure-list [Exhibit-2] wherein Exhibit-2 [2] is his signature. The
1.0. stated that victim was sent to the court for recording statement by the
learned Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C. as well as before the doctor for her
medico legal check-up.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side stated that

at the police station he examined the victim of the case.

15). The accused during his statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. took
plea that instant case has been filed by the father of victim due to
misunderstanding of fact. As per his version, on the date of incident the victim
came to his house in order to watch television and he instructed the victim to go

to her house for study and not to watch television in his residence.

16). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen that the
victim [PW-1] and Sri Nagen Mala [PW-6] who is the son of accused are the star
witnesses of the instant case.

The victim [PW-1] during her statement stated that on the date of
incident she visited accused’s house to watch television. At that time the accused
was residing alone in the house. It is further version of the victim that the
accused grabbed her hair and, in turn, she told before the later that she arrived
at his house to watch television. At that time the accused slapped her for not
studying in her house. Further version of the victim is that she gave statement
before the Magistrate vide Exhibit-1 wherein Exhibit-1 [1] and Exhibit-1 [2] are
her signatures. The victim stated that she gave statement before the Magistrate
where she disclosed that on the relevant day the accused arrived at her
residence to return back the loan amount which he [accused] took from her
father. Thereafter, the accused showed her private part and also pressed her
buttock. When she cried then the accused fled away from her residence. She was
produced before a doctor for medical check-up.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side stated that
she narrated the incident before her mother about the misbehavior of the

accused done to her about twenty minutes of the incident. The victim further

SPECIAL CASE NO. 06 OF 2018
stated that she did not tell before her mother that accused grabbed her hair and

also slapped her for visiting his house to watch television and for not studying.

17). Evidence of Sri Nagen Mala [PW-6] who is the son of accused Motilal
Mala is to the effect that on the date of incident the victim girl [PW-1] was
watching television at their house. His father, i.e., the accused, told them to go
to their home and study. After sometime the father of victim came in a drunken
condition and threatened them that he will lodge case against the accused.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side admitted that
he was present in his residence and was chewing pan leaves and he found the
victim present in his house watching television with two of his nephews. His
father, i.e., the accused touched the hair of victim and asked her to leave their

house.

18). Smt. Niru Gogoi [PW-2] who is the mother of victim [PW-1] gave
deposition in Court that on the date of incident she came out of her house. After
twenty minutes she returned back home. She came to know from her daughter
that the accused visited their house to return back the loan amount. Thereafter,
the later showed his private part to the victim and also pressed her buttocks, for
which, she cried and then accused fled away from their house. It is further
version of this witness that during investigation police seized one school
certificate of her minor daughter vide Exhibit-2 wherein Exhibit-2 [1] is her
signature.

During cross-examination, this witness stated that her daughter [PW-
1] stated before her that prior to the incident when she went to the house of
accused to watch television the accused grabbed her hair and slapped her for
only watching television and not studying. She denied defence suggestion that
later part of the story has been falsely alleged by her. She categorically stated

that there was no quarrel with the accused prior to the incident.
19). The evidence of Sri Keshab Gogoi [PW-3] who is the father of victim-

cum-informant of the case is in the same line as that of his ejahar [Exhibit-3]

wherein Exhibit-3 [1] is his signature. This witness further stated that during

SPECIAL CASE NO. 06 OF 2018
investigation police seized the school certificate of his daughter vide seizure-list
[Exhibit-2] wherein Exhibit-2 [2] is his signature. Exhibit-4 is the Zimmanama
wherein Exhibit-4 [1] is his relevant signature.

During cross-examination by defence side, this witness categorically
stated that he did not ask anything about the incident and also did not ask his
daughter whether she told the ejahar writer as per the statement written in the

ejahar.

20). Learned counsel for the accused has argued that the parent of the
victim had enmity with the accused and hence they lodged false case against
him. It is further contended that the victim had been tutored by her parent to
depose against the accused. It is also submitted that the parent of the victim
were reported witnesses and the evidence of parent of the victim [PW-2 & PW-3]

varies with the evidence recorded by the I.O. during 161 Cr.P.C. statement.

21). In the case of Bipin Kumar Mondal —versus- State of West
Bengal, 2010 [12] SCC 91, the Hon’ble Apex Court reiterated the principle
stating that it is not the quantity but the quality that is material. The honored
principle is that evidence has to be weighed and not counted. The test is whether

the evidence has a ring of truth, is cogent, credible, trustworthy and reliable.

22). From the aforesaid exposition of law, it is quite clear that it is not
the number and quantity, but the quality that is material. It is the duty of the
court to consider the trustworthiness of evidence on record which inspires

confidence and the same has to be accepted and acted upon.

23). It is a well settled law that the conviction on the sole evidence of a
child witness is permissible, if such witness is found competent to testify and the
court, after careful scrutiny of its evidence.

In the case of Datttu Ramrao Sakhare-versus-State of
Maharashtra, reported in [1997] 5 SCC 341, the Hon’ble Apex Court has held
that — “A child witness if found competent to depose to the facts and

reliable one, such evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other

SPECIAL CASE NO. 06 OF 2018
10

words, even in the absence of oath, the evidence of a child witness can
be considered under Section 118 of Indian Evidence Act, provided that
such witness is able to understand the questions and able to give
rational answers thereof. The evidence of a child witness and credibility
thereof would depend upon the circumstance of each case. The only
precaution which the court should bear in mind while assessing the
evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be reliable one and
his/her demeanor must be like any other competent witness and there

is no likelihood of being tutored”.

24). Now if we again peruse the evidence of victim [PW-1] it can be well
gathered that on the date of incident she visited accused’s house to watch
television. At that time the accused was residing alone in the house. It is further
version of the victim that the accused grabbed her hair and, in turn, she told
before the later that she arrived at his house to watch television. At that time the
accused slapped her for not studying in her house. Further version of the victim
is that she gave statement before the Magistrate vide Exhibit-1 wherein Exhibit-1
[1] and Exhibit-1 [2] are her signatures. The victim stated that she gave
statement before the Magistrate where she disclosed that on the relevant day the
accused arrived at her residence to return back the loan amount which he
[accused] took from her father. Thereafter, the accused showed her private part
and also pressed her buttock. When she cried then the accused fled away from
her residence. She was produced before a doctor for medical check-up.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side stated that
she narrated the incident before her mother about the misbehavior of the
accused done to her about twenty minutes of the incident. The victim further
stated that she did not tell before her mother that accused grabbed her hair and
also slapped her for visiting his house to watch television and for not studying.

Version of victim [PW-1] gets full corroboration from the testimony

of Sri Nagen Mala [W-6] who is the son of accused.

25). Flip-flop evidence has been tendered by the victim which gets no

support from the evidence of her parent [PW-2 & PW-3] as father of victim-cum-

SPECIAL CASE NO. 06 OF 2018

10
11

informant of the case [PW-3] during cross-examination testified that he did not
ask anything about the incident and also did not ask his daughter whether she
told the ejahar writer as per the statement written in the ejahar. Further, there is
every possibility that false case has been lodged by the father of the victim as
accused scolded her for not studying when she went to watch television in his
house. Moreover, the statement of victim is not consistent and it varies from the
statement given by her before the learned Magistrate [Exhibit-1] from that of the
statement given before this court. Further, there is no material, at all, under
Section 4 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, as
victim, at no point of time, stated that accused committed penetrative sexual

assault upon her.

26). Thus, on scrutinizing the evidence on record it is seen that no case has
been made out against accused Motilal Mala to warrant his conviction under
Section 354-A IPC as well as under Section 4 of The Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 beyond all reasonable doubt, for which, I am of the
opinion that the accused is entitled to acquittal under benefit of doubt which I
accordingly do. Hence, accused Motilal Mala is acquitted from the charges
under Section 354-A IPC read with Section 4 of The Protection of Children From
Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

27). Accused is in jail. He be released forthwith if not required to be
detained in connection with any other case.
Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 21st day of

January 2019.

Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:-12

SPECIAL CASE NO. 06 OF 2018

11
12

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURES:-
PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-
PW-1 Victim girl.
PW-2 Smt. Niru Gogoi, mother of victim
PW-3 Sri Keshab Gogoi, father of victim girl-cum-
informant of the case.
PW-4 Smt. Joymati Bharali, housewife.
PW-5 Dr. Amrita Nath, who examined the victim girl.
PW-6 Sri Nagen Mala, son of accused Motilal Mala.
PW-7 Smt. Chiran Jyoti Gogoi, housewife.
PW-8 Sri Deba Jyoti Phukan, I.O. of the case.
COURT WITNESS:- NIL
EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit-1 Statement of victim recorded by the Magistrate
under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-2 Seizure-list

Exhibit-3 Ejahar

Exhibit-4 Zimmanama

Exhibit-5 Medico legal report of victim

Exhibit-6 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index

Exhibit-7 Charge-sheet

 

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NIL

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO.

06 OF 2018 1?
SPECIAL CASE NO. 06 OF 2018

13

13
