 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 24/2019.

U/S — 366(A) of IPC read with Sec. 8 of POCSO Act,2012.

State of Assam
~ Versus -
RahulRabidas sg Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Appearance and Particulars :-

 

For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the accused person ‘- Sri R.A. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.
Date of recording evidence -- 24.01.2020.

Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC :- 30.01.2020.

Date of Argument -- 30.01.2020.

Date of Judgment ~ 3OG1, 2020.

JUDGMENT
The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 16.07.2019 the

informant Sri Dilip Rabidas lodged an ejahar with the O/c of Lala Police Station
alleging that on 15.07.2019 at about 1.30 PM while himself and his wife were not in
the house, their minor daughter i.e. the victim went missing and accordingly, they
made vigorous search for her but could not trace her out but subsequently, he came
to know that the accused person Rahul Rabidas kidnapped the victim.

Contd.....P/2.
405
&

a

4 Sa
% % A

nS

‘GS

Ss

%

&

Special (POCSO) Case No. 24/2019,

a

2. On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered as Lala PS
Case No. 382/2019 under Sec 366 IPC and during investigation, police visited the
place of occurrence, recorded statements of witnesses, got the victim medically
€xamined and also got her statement recorded under Sec. 164, CPC and after
Completion of investigation submitted charge sheet against the accused person
Rahul Rabidas under Sec. 366 IPC read with Sec. 8 of the POCSO Act

a On appearance of accused person Rahul Rabidas, copies of
relevant materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were furnished to him.

4. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence
Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record, having found sufficient
grounds for presuming that the accused person has committed the offence, the
formal charges have been framed against the accused Person Rahul Rabidas under
Sec. 366(A) of the IPC read with Sec. 8 of the POCSO Act. The charges so framed
were read over and explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

5. In the instant Case, the prosecution has examined the victim
and her father, the informant only. Thereafter, on submission of Ld. Public
Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence Counsel, the prosecution evidence was closed. The
accused person is examined under Sec. 313, CrPC, wherein he has denied the

allegations levelled against him by the Prosecution. The defence did not adduce any
evidence.

6. Heard argument of both sides. Perused the record.

Pe POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-
SEE TERMINATION

(i) Whether the accused Person on 15.07.2019 at about 1.30
PM at village Chandrapur Pt. I under Lala PS induced the victim, the minor daughter

Contd.....P/3.
Special (POCSQ) Case No. 24/2019.
re

of the informant to go with him with intent that she may be or knowing that she will
be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby, the accused has committed
the offence punishable under Sec. 366(A) of the IPC?

(ii) Whether the accused person sexually assaulted the
victim, the minor daughter of the informant and thereby, the accused has committed
the offence punishable under Sec. 8 of the POCSO Act,2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :-
ME REASONS THEREOF

8. The victim (PW.1) has deposed that she had love affair with
the accused and as such, on the relevant day she eloped with the accused without
informing her father and got married him and since then, she has been living with
the accused happily as his wife and at the relevant time, she was aged 18 years. It
is further deposed by the victim that out of misunderstanding, her father lodged the
Case against the accused. During investigation, police got her medically examined
and also got her statement recorded by Magistrate vide ext. 1,

9. The PW. 2, Sri Dilip Rabidas, the informant, has deposed that
on the relevant day his daughter i.e. the victim went missing but he could not trace
her out and accordingly, he lodged the case vide Ext. 2 against the accused on
suspicion but subsequently, he came to know that his daughter had love affair with
the accused and as such, she on her own will, eloped with the accused and at that
time, the victim was 18 years old and presently, the victim is residing with the
accused as his wife happily and as such, he has got no accusation against the
accused.

10. In the instant Case, though the informant, who is the father of
the victim, has penned implication against the accused in the ejahar but in the

Contd.....P/4,
Special (POCSQ) Case No. 24/2019.

—

evidence the victim has deposed that at the relevant time, she eloped with the
accused on her own will without informing her father and got married him and at the
relevant time, she was aged 18 years and presently, she is living with the accused as
his wife happily. So also, the informant himself in his evidence corroborating the
victim, has stated that without informing him, the victim eloped with the accused out
of love affair and he lodged the case against the accused on suspicion. It is further
made clear by the informant that at the relevant time, the victim was major and
presently, she is living with the accused happily as husband and wife and hence, he
has got no accusation against the accused. When the victim herself, whose evidence
bears much significance to decide such type of cases as well as her father i.e. the
informant, has not supported the prosecution case, I do not find any cogent reason
to hold the accused person guilty for the commission of the offence, alleged.

11. In fine, the accused person Rahul Rabidas is acquitted of the
offence charged under Sec. 366(A) of the IPC read with Sec. 8 of the POCSO Act.
Set him at liberty forthwith.

12. The bail bond of the accused stands discharged.

The judgment is delivered today, on this the 30th day of
January, 2020.

Op 2
ae" i
71,9 :
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

Dictation is taken and transcribed by _ Baharul Islam __Choudhu
tenographer Grade I.

 

Contd......P/5.
- 5-

Special (POCSO) Case No. 24/2019.

Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, the victim,

PW. 2, the informant.

Documentary evidence :-

Ext. 1, Statement of the victim recorded under Sec. 164, CrPC.
Ext. 2, the Ejahar.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

 
