1

_IN THE COURT OF THE CHIEF JUDICIAL MAGISTRATE ::: :
TINSUKIA

Present: Smt. A. Bhattacharyya, A.J.S.
Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Tinsukia.

PRC Case No. 440/19
Under Section 448/354(D)/506 of the Indian Penal Code

The State Of ASSAM...........cccccecseceeceeeeeeeaeeeeaeeeees Complainant
-Versus-

Sri Bijender GOwala.......ccccececseeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeneenes Accused person

Appearance :

Smti Jamila Khatun,
Ld. Addl. Public ProS@Cutor..........ccccceeeeeeeeees For the State

Sri Brijesh Mishra

eo Fay Xe V0 \er-) For the accused
Evidence recorded on : 27-08-19 & 14-11-19,
Date of Argument : 04-12-19

Date of Judgment : 30-12-19
2

J UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 10-07-18
at 10:00 A.M INFORMANT Shri Pashupati Tiwari has came to know from
his niece Miss Khushi Tiwari that one Bijender Gowala resident of
Chota hapjan No. 23 line always had sexual greed upon her as well as
upon her elder sister and in most of time he pressurize her to establish
sexual relationship with him. On her refusal the said person also went
to the extent of assaulting her physically. Further, the complainant
alleged that on 09-07-18 the alleged accused namely Shri Bijendra
Gowala again pressurize complaint’s niece to share bed with her and
when she refused, he physically assaulted her complainant. Hence the
Ejahar of the case was lodged.

2. On receiving the Ejahar, the Officer-In-Charge of
Makum P.S. registered a case vide. Makum P.S case No. 139/18 u/s
448/325/354/506 of IPC R/W Sec. 12 POCSO Act. The police
investigated the case and filed charge sheet against the accused
Bijender Gowala u/s 448/354 D/506 IPC R/W Sec. 12 of POCSO Act, 12.
Summons was served to the accused person. On appearance of the
accused person, the particulars of charge u/s 448/354 (D)/506 of IPC
was framed and the same were read over and explained to the
accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.

a. The prosecution examined 3 (Three) PWs. The
defence plea was of total denial. Heard the argument and perused the

evidences, documents and record carefully.
Point for determination

4. The following points are considered for
determination of this case:

i) Whether the accused person Shri Bijendra
Gowala on 09-07-18 and also on earlier
occasions committed house trespass by
|W

entering into the house of the victim
Miss Khushi Tiwari Sri Jagannath Das and
thereby liable to be punished for offence
under section 448 of IPC ?

ii) Whether the accused person Shri Bijendra
Gowala on 09-07-18 and also on earlier
occasions tried to outrage the modesty of
the victim Miss Khushi Tiwari and also
threatened her with dire consequences on
her refusal and thereby liable to be punished
u/s 354(A)/506 I.P.C. ?

Discussions, Decisions And Reasons Thereof

 

5. The prosecution adduced the following evidence for
establishing their case:

6. PW-1 PASHUPATI TIWARI, the informant of the case
deposed in his evidence that the accused person used to live with the
elder sister of the victim Smti Gayatri Tiwari at his house during the
year 2018. The victim Smti Khushi Tiwari also used to reside in the
same house with her elder sister Smti Gayatri Tiwari. About one year
ago Khushi Tiwari told him that the accused person used to utter
obscene word and involved in obscene act. She informed him that the
accused used to sit and sleep with her and behaved with her in a bad
manner. Thereafter, she informed him that she wanted to intimate the
matter to the police persons and accordingly, he along with her went
to the PS and he lodged the ejahar. Ext.1 is the ejahar and Ext.1(1) is
his signature. Police recorded his statement.

7. PW2 SMTI KHUSI TIWARI, the victim of the case
deposed in her evidence that the occurrence took place in the year
2018. At that time she was residing along with her sister and brother in
law (the accused) in their house along with her three other siblings.
|

Both her father and mother expired prior to the occurrence. At that
time, the wife of Sri Pasupati Tiwari namely Smti Munni Tiwari came to
their house and told her that she intended to take her to Haryana with
her. During that period there was some land dispute in between
Pasupati Tiwari and her sister and her brother in law (the accused). In
the mean time, some dispute arose in between her and her elder sister
Gayatri Tiwari. Moreover, her aunty (Munni Tiwari) also told her to
lodge the FIR against the accused person and hence the case was
instituted. But her aunty did not take him to Haryana but put her
inside one orphanage. Later on, the relationship in between her, her
elder sister and her brother in law( the accused) turned into a cordial
one and at present she had been residing with her sister and brother in
law. She was brought back by her another sister Smti Riya Tiwari from
orphanage. As her parents are already expired, she has been
peacefully residing in the house of the accused and her sister.

8. PW3 SMTI GAYATRI TIWARI deposed in her evidence
that the occurrence took place in the year 2018. At the time of
occurrence, Khusi Tiwari was residing with her along with her husband
at their house. Both her father and mother expired prior to the
occurrence. At that time, the wife of Sri Pasupati Tiwari namely Smti
Munni Tiwari came to their house and told her sister Khusi Tiwari that
she intended to take her to Haryana with her. At that time there was
some land dispute in between Pasupati Tiwari and herself and husband
(the accused ). In the mean time, some dispute arose in between her
and her sister Khusi Tiwari which resulted in lodging of the FIR against
the accused person. Police recorded her statement. But, later on, her
aunty did not take Khusi Tiwari to Haryana but put her inside one
orphanage. Later on, the relationship in between her, Khusi Tiwari and
her husband improved and Khusi Tiwari started residing .

9. Heard the Ld. Counsel for the accused and the Ld.
Addl. PP.It is reflected from the evidence on record that the victim of
ln

the case i.e. PW2 Smti Khushi Tiwari did not support the story of
prosecution as alleged in the Ejahar. Her evidence is silent with regard
to any attempt made by the accused person to outrage her modesty or
giving of any threat to the victim. In a criminal proceeding, the offence
against the accused must be porved beyond reasonable doubt so as to
convict the accused p-erson. But in the present case, the prposecution
witnesses did not depose anything so as to prove the guit olf the
accused beyond reasonable doubt.

10. Considering the above reasons, | find that the
prosecution failed to prove the ingredients of Sections 448/354 (D)/506
of IPC against the accused person beyond reasonable doubt.
Accordingly, the accused SRI BIENDRA GOWALA is acquitted from the
offences punishable u/s 448/354 (D)/506 of IPC and | exonerate the
accused person from the above offences, setting him at liberty
forthwith. The bail bond shall stand cancelled after six months.

11. This case is accordingly disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on the 30%
day of December, 2019.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(Audri Bhattacharyya) (Audri Bhattacharyya)
Chief judicial Magistrate, Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Tinsukia. Tinsukia.
IO)

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESSES
P.W1- SRI PASUPATI TIWARI

P.W2-SMTI KHUSI TIWARI

P.W3-SMTI GAYATRI TIWARI

PROSECUTION EXHIBITS:
Ext.1- ejahar

(Audri Bhattacharyya)
Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Tinsukia.
