1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 04/2017
corresponding to GR Case No. 363/2017 &
Diphu Police Station Case No. 76/2017
Under Sections 366(A) IPC/ R/W 4 of the
POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Rajesh Shah

Name of informant/complainant:
Shri Sanjay Ray
S/O Shri Ram Bahadur Ray
Village: Panbari, Diphu
P.S: Diphu
District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Rajesh Shah
S/O Shri Nokhi Shah
Village: Panbari, Diphu
P.S: Diphu
District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.
Advocates appeared:
For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the defence : Mr. Bidhan Mazumder
Date fixed for Argument : 04.06.2019
Date(s) fixed for Judgment : 15.06.2019/17.06.2019
2|Page

N:B=As | was on Casual Leave the Judgment could not be

pronounced and delivered on date fixed.

UDGMENT

It is a case of kidnap of minor female and
penetrative sexual assault on her alleged to have
been committed by the accused.

The prosecution case in brief is that on
22.05.2017 the informant named above lodged a
written ejahar with Diphu Town Out Post stating
inter alia that on 21.05.2017 at 6:00 AM the
accused enticed away his victim sister having age
of 17 years from the house and her where about
could not be traced out and the same was
forwarded to Diphu Police Station for registering a
criminal case. On receipt of written ejahar, Diphu
Police Station registered a criminal case vide Diphu
Police Station case No. 76/2017 under section 366 A
IPC. On completion of investigation, the charge
Sheet was submitted under section 366 A of the IPC
read with section 4 of the POCSO Act against the
accused person. Hence the prosecution has come

up.

On completion of appearance of the present
accused person before the Court, copy was supplied
to the accused person. Having very carefully gone
through submissions of learned lawyers of both
sides as well as case diary | found that there was
ground for presuming that that the accused person
committed the offenses under section 4 of the
POCSO Act and accordingly, the charge was framed.
The particular of the offence charged was duly read
3|Page

over and explained to the accused person to which
he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

During trial, Prosecution has examined as many
as 5 (five) witnesses. The accused person has been
examined under section 313 CrPC. The defence has
examined none. Plea of defence is of total denial.

Points for determination

Whether the accused on or before
15.07.2018 at Panbari under Diphu Police
Station or in any other Police Station made
penetrative sexual assault upon. the
victim?

Decisions and reasons

thereof:

| have very carefully gone through verbal
arguments advanced by the learned counsels of
both sides as well as evidence on record.

Both PW-1 and PW-2 is the brother of the victim.
PW-3 is the victim. Both of them categorically have
stated in their evidence that at the time of
occurrence, the victim was 17 years old. PW-4 is the
medical officer and Ext-3 is her medical report. Her
evidence and Ext-3 show that X-Ray couldn’t be
done on the victim as she was in early stage of
pregnancy. For ossification test X-Ray is necessary.
4|Page

There is no documentary evidence regarding age
proof of the victim. Only evidence of PW-1 and PW-3
is on record for opinion regarding age of the victim
at the time occurrence. Though the defence has not
dispute the evidence that at the time of occurrence
the victim was 17 years. There is undisputed
evidence on record that the victim became mother
of a child from the side of the accused, that at
present the victim has completed 18 years that the
victim is staying in the house of the accused and
the accused has been in the jail hazot since
08.07.2017. For attracting the sections 363 of the
IPC/6 of the POCSO Act the victim needs to below
18 years. During examination of the accused under
section 313 of the CrPC has stated that at the time
of occurrence, the victim was 17 years is false.
Without documentary evidence and ossification test
| feel hesitation to hold that at the time of

occurrence the victim was below 18 years.

In this case victim is considered to be a star
witness. Her evidence clearly indicates that she fled
away with the accused person on her sweet will and
that the accused made sexual intercourse with her
with consent as result of which she gave birth to a
child.

ORDER

In the result, | find that the prosecution has
failed to prove its case beyond all reasonable
doubts against the accused person. Hence on
benefit of doubts, accused Shri Rajesh Shah is here
by acquitted from the charge brought against him
and let him set at liberty forthwith. The
5|Page

Superintendent of District Jail Diphu is asked to
release the accused if he is not wanted in other
case. Accordingly this case is disposed of on

contest.

10. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on
this 17" June, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me.

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed,
AJS)

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Diphu, Karbi Anglong Diphu, Karbi

Anglong
