Page 1 of 7

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

03 OF 2017
(Under Section 8 of the POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No. 2805 of
2016)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam
-“Vs-
Md. Tahid Ali Anchari
Son of Late mahammad Ansari,
Resident of Nepalipatty
Police Station.— Tezpur
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
03-05-2017

06-07-2017
06-07-2017

06-07-2017
06-07-2017

Mrs. Jaya Baruah,
Addl. Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Mr. Biraj Nath, Advocates.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Md. Tahid Ali Anchari is put for trial for allegation
of charge under Section 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The factual matrix according to the FIR, in brief, is that on 28-08-2016

one aged person Tahid Ali after coming rape on a minor daughter of Dharani

Borah, fled away from their house. On hearing hue and cry, the informant and

other local people gathered in the house of said Dharani Bora, took the victim

girl and her father to the police station. Hence, this prosecution case. The

 
Page 2 of 7

ejahar was filed by informant Sri Binay Gopal Saha before the O/C of Tezpur
Police station on 29-08-2016.

3. On receipt of the ejahar, O/C of Tezpur Police station registered a case
being Tezpur P.S. Case No. 150/16 u/s 376 of IPC read with section 4 of the
POCSO Act. After completion of usual investigation, the I.0. sent up the
accused for trial by filing charge sheet u/s 8 of the POCSO Act, 2012 against
the accused Md. Tahid Ali Anchari.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing both
parties, framed charge under section 8 of POCSO Act, 2012, against the
accused _ and particulars of the charge was read over, explained to the accused

to which he pleads not guilty and claims to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution, examined as many as three
numbers of witnesses which includes the victim and mother of the victim. After
completion of third witness, learned counsel for the accused submitted that the
statement of the victim and her mother.no»way supported the prosecution case.
Hence, praying for closing the evidence. Even if examined the other witnesses
with the evidence of the victim prosecution case would not develop. Learned
Addl. Public Prosecutorsalso” conceded. I have thoroughly, perused the
statement of the victim and also mother of the victim. It also appears that none
of the statement of the witnesses reveals any materials against the accused as
to the alleged offence. Therefore, I think that it would be futile to examine the
other witnesses. Even if examined the other witnesses, prosecution case would
not develop. Speedy trial is the right of the accused persons. Considering these
aspects, prosecution evidence is closed. Speedy trial is the fundamental right of
the accused person. Accused is examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations
made against the accused and evidence appears against the accused are put
before him for explanation where he denied the allegations and declined to

adduce defence evidence.

6. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels of both

sides.

 
Page 3 of 7

7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) “Whether on or 28-08-2016, at Garowanppatty Hola, under
Tezpur Police station the accused committed sexual assault on "Miss
X (aged about 13 years) and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 8 of the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on

record.

9. PW 1 Dr. Tutumoni Handique, stated that on 30-08-2016 she was
posted as working as Sr. Medical & Health Officer-1 in the Kanaklata Civil
Hospital, Tezpur and on that day at about 1.40 p.m. in the labour room
complex of KCH, she examined Seema Borah, 13) years, female, D/O Dharani
Borah, Bamun gaon Barika chuburi Tezpur, on police requisition, in reference
to Tezpur PS Case NO. 1501/16 u/s 376 ofthe IPC r/w section 8 of POCSO Act
on being escorted and identified by ABC/ 838 Kalpana Boro , vide Hospital
registration No. 114764/2016 dt. 30-08-2016. She was examined in presence of
GNM Benedicta Longa.-Gonsent in writing before examination was taken from

her mother.

According’to victim, she was asked to expose her private parts in front

of known-person. Menstrual history- attains manerchy two months back.

On examination she found the following:

Height — 138 cm., Weight — 37 Kg, Teeth — 6 in all four quadrants.
Identification mark — mole on forehead

Neat and tidy. Average built, normal gait.

Secondary sexual characters are developing stage. No injury in
her private parts as well as on her other parts.

Investigation report.

Vaginal smear for spermatozoa — Negative for spermatozoa.
Done at KCH, Tezpur, Lab No. 99/16
Page 4 of 7

X-ray for age determination — not done.
OPINION:

1. Actual age could not be ascertained as X-ray for ossification
test not done.
2. No injury marks on her body as well as on her private parts.

2. No sign of recent sexual intercourse.
Enclo: - Vaginal smear report and police requistion.

Ext. 1 is the Medical Report and Ext. 1(1) is her signature, Ext.2 is the

police requisition and Ext. 2(1) is her signature on receipt of police requisition.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she has not submitted the
written consent with the medical report. She hassnot mentioned in the report
about the duration of examination. She has not mentioned in the report about

the mental condition of the victim.

10. PW 2 Smt. Mina Borah, mother of the victim girl stated that she knows
the accused. On the day of incident she went to her work place. At about 7.50
p.m. while she arrived at-her home, she came to know that accused in the day
time came to their house. During that time her victim daughter was sleeping,
accused addressed by calling her name. So her daughter out of shock woke up
and raised alarm. On hearing her alarm neighbouring people on suspect
informed-the matter to police. One Binay Gopal Saha has also filed the ejahar.
She was reported by her daughter. Police recorded her statement along with
the=statement of the victim. At the time of the incident, the victim was 14/15

years of age.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she was not reported by her
daughter that accused had committed any misdeed to her. On that day, people
gathered there and assaulted the accused. Her daughter was forced by local

public to give statement.

11. PW 3, the victim Miss X stated before the court that he knows the

accused. His name is Sahid @ Tahid. He has a house near the shop of her

 
Page 5 of 7

mother at Kekorapool. The incident took place on year ago. At the relevant
time her mother went to do her work. She was alone at home and she was
sleeping at that time. Accused came and called her mother addressing her
mother’s name. Out of fear she raised alarm, therefore, the neighbour of their
house, filed a false case against the accused. Accused did not commit any
misdeed to her. The landlord of their house filed the case against the accused.
She was examined by a doctor at Civil Hospital and she made statement before
the Magistrate. At the dictation of woman constable and her neighbour, she

made statement before the learned Magistrate.

12. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case:-While the accuse

was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. he denied the allegation.

13. Learned counsel for the accused submitted\that the prosecution has

failed to prove the charge against the accused beyond any reasonable doubt.

14. Here in the present case, firstly, the victim gives goodbye to the
prosecution case stating at the relevant time accused who is known to her
came to their house as earlier‘raised the name of her mother. During that time,
she was in sleep. Out-of fear she raised alarm. On hearing her alarm,
neighbouring people“including their owner of their house arrived there. She
clearly stated that)accused did not commit any misdeed on her. Besides,
accused is an innocent person. Similarly, mother of the victim stated on oath
that in thevevening of 7.50 p.m. while she came back to her house, she came
to know that accused as earlier came to their house raising her name, during
that.time her daughter was in sleep. On hearing the shouting of the accused,
her daughter got up from the bed and out of fear she started to shout. On
hearing her shouting, neighbouring people including the landlord of their house
is arrived there. They informed the matter to the police station. Thereafter,
they filed the case against the accused. By that way, the mother of the victim

did not implicate the accused in any of the alleged charge.

 
Page 6 of 7

15. To brought the charge under section 8 of the Protection of Child from
Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, prosecution must prove that —

Section 7 - sexual assault-

“Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina,
penis, anus or breast of the child or makes the child
touch the vagina, penis, anus or breast of such person or
any other person, or does any other act with sexual
intent which’ involves” physical contact without
penetration issaid to commit sexual assault”

16. Here in the present case, as stated above, neither the victim nor the

mother of the victim no way supported the prosecution case.

17. Therefore, I am bound to hold that the prosecution has failed to prove
the alleged charge against the accused beyond any reasonable doubt. Hence,
the accused Md. Tahid Ali Anchari is acquitted on benefit of doubt and set him
at liberty forthwith.

18. — The liabilities of the bailor is hereby discharged.

The GR Case No. 2805/16 be returned to the learned committal court
with a copy of this order.

Given under my-Hand°and Seal of this Court on this the 6" day of July,
2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
Page 7 of 7

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

1. Prosecution Witness No.1 = Dr. Tutumoni Handique.
2. Prosecution Witness No.2 = Smt. Mina Borah
3. Prosecution Witness No.3 i- Victim.
EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 1 '- Medical Report
Exhibit 2 = police requisition
(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE

SONITPUR : TEZPUR
