1

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.

Special P.O.C.S.O. Act CASE NO. 44 OF 2016

Under Section 376(2)(i)/511 I.P.C R/W Section 8 of P.O.C.S.O. Act,2012

Present:- Smti. C. R. Goswami, A.J.S.,
Special Judge, Barpeta

State of Assam.

-versus-
Ajmal Haque ...... Accused.
APPEARANCE
For the Prosecution : Sri Lalit Ch. Nath, learned P.P.
For the accused : 1. Sri D. Talukdar, Ld. Senior Advocate

2. Karabi Das, learned Advocate.

Evidence recorded on : 30.06.2017,
Argument heard on : 28.06.2018,
Judgment delivered on : 28.06.2018.

} U D G M E N T

1. The prosecution case, as narrated in the FIR, is that on
14.09.2016 at about 6:00 PM while the victim, aged about 12/13 years,
was washing her hands in their tube-well, accused Ajmal Haque, coming
from backside, tied her mouth with a gamocha and dragged her to a
2

nearby house and attempted to commit rape on her. The victim somehow
removed the gamocha and started shouting. While the neighbouring
people rushed to the place of occurrence, the accused person fled away.
The matter was informed to accused Habeluddin, the father of accused
Ajmal Haque but he rebuked them in filthy language and threatened to kill
them. Accordingly the father of the victim Abdul Mazid lodged the FIR on
16.09.2016.

2. On the basis of the F.I.R. police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation the I/O submitted the
charge sheet against accused Ajmal Haque u/s 376(2)(i)/511 I.BC R/W
Section 8 of P.O.C.S.O. Act,2012

3. The accused person appeared before this court, copies were
furnished to him and after hearing both the parties charge was framed
against accused Ajmal Haque under section 376(2)(i)/511 I.PBC R/W
Section 8 of P.O.C.S.O. Act,2012. Charge was read over and clearly
explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed for trial.

4. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined only
2(two) witnesses including the medical officer. Examination of the accused
person under section 313 Cr.P.C. is dispensed with.

5. Points for determination:-

Whether the accused person, on 14.09.2016 at about 6:00
PM, at Kachumara NONK, Baguribari at Barbala, within the jurisdiction of
Kachumara P.S. District Barpeta, attempted to commit sexual assault on
Abida Khatun, aged about 12/13 years, the daughter of the informant Md.
Abdul Mazid ?

Discussion, decision and reasons thereof
6. According to the FIR, on 14.09.2016, the accused person tied
the mouth of the victim from backside, dragged her to a nearby house

 
3

and attempted to commit rape on her. Father of the victim Abdul Mazid
lodged and FIR. Said Abdul Mazid as PW1 has deposed that on the day
of occurrence, to watch football match many people gathered at the field.
The victim also went to that field. She went to take water to a nearby
tube-well. The accused also went there. Then the villagers instigated him
to lodge the FIR against the accused person. So, as per direction of the
villagers he filed the case.

In cross examination he has stated that he is an illiterate
person and he does not know who wrote the FIR and what was written
there. He only took his thumb impression there. At the time of occurrence
he was not present. He heard it later.

7. The victim Abida Khatun as PW2 has corroborated the
statement of PW1 by saying that on the day of occurrence, she had gone
to watch football match in the field. She had gone to the tube-well to take
water and there an altercation took place with the accused and some
other persons. Saiful and Sakina asked her father to file a case. Then the
village people wrote the FIR and her father lodged the same. She was
examined by the M.O. and her statement was recorded by the magistrate.

In cross examination he has stated that as tutored by
Sariful and Sakina she made the statement before the magistrate. She
does not know what was written in the FIR. The accused person did not do
any illicit act with her.

Except these two prosecution witnesses, prosecution has not

examined any other witness in support of the prosecution case.
8. From the above discussions of the evidences of the
prosecution witnesses i.e. PW1 & PW2, it is revealed that neither the
informant nor the victim has supported the prosecution case. None of
them has made a single whisper regarding the attempt to commit rape by
the accused person. Rather, the victim has clearly stated that the accused
did not do any illicit act with her. Only an altercation took place in
between her and the accused person.
9. Under the above facts and circumstances, it is clear that the
accused person cannot be held guilty for any offence either under section
376(2)(i)/511 I.R.C or under Section 8 of P.O.C.S.O. Act,2012. Therefore the
accused person is acquitted and set at liberty.

10. Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety are
extended for another period of six months from the date of this judgment
under section 437-A Cr.P.C.

11. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section 365
Cr.P.C.

12. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 28th day
of June, 2018.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-

(Smti. C. R. Goswami) (Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta.
APPENDIX

(A) Prosecution witnesses:
P.W.1 = Abdul Mazid, the informant,

P.W.2 = Abida Khatun, the victim,

(B) Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext.1 = Statement of the victim u/s 164 CrPC,
Ext.1(1)&1(2) = Signature of the victim,

(C) Defence witnesses:Nil.
(D) Defence Exhibits: Nil.
(E) Court witnesses:Nil

(F) Court Exhibits: Nil.

Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta.
