Page 1 of 10

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s

313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

26 of 2018

(Under Section 18 of POCSO Act, arising
out of G.R. Case No. 460/18 )

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge,
Sonitpur :Tezpur
State of Assam
-“Vs-
1. Sri Ranjan Thapa
Son of Late Kul, Bahadur Thapa,
Resident of ‘Chariduar
Police Station = Chariduar
Dist. :- Sonitpur, Assam.
11-05-2018.

25-07-2018, 04-09-2018
& 24-09-2018.

29-11-2018

13-12-2018

15-12-2018

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Special Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mrs S. Begum, Advocate.

 
Page 2 of 10
JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Ranjan Thapa _ is put for trial for allegation
of charge u/s 18 of POCSO Act.

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on or
about 4.30 p.m. of 2" February, 2018 the accused who belongs to the
same village of the informant, took informant’s minor daughter,
attempted to commit penetrative sexual assault. While the son ofthe
accused witnessed the incident informant’s victim daughter was ‘save
somehow. Hence, this prosecution case. The ejahar was filed. by “the
informant Ashiram Lama on 02-02-2018 before the O/C of Chariduar

Police station.

as On being receipt the ejahar, O/C “Chariduar Police Station
registered a case being Chariduar P.S. Case No»34/18 u/s 376(1)(1)/511
of IPC read with section 18 of the POCSO»Act. After completion of usual
investigation, the O/C Chariduar Police Station sent up the case for trial

against the accused Ranjan Thapa under section 8 of the POCSO Act.

4. On being appeared thexaccused person before this Court, after
commitment of the record, after hearing both parties, framed charge u/s
18 of the POCSO Act.against the accused Ranjan Thapa. Particulars of the
charge were read_over, explained to the accused to which he pleaded not

guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 6
numbers of witnesses. After completion of prosecution witnesses,
statement of the accused is recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations
made against the accused and the evidence appears against the accused
are put before him for his explanation where he denied the allegation and
declined to adduce defence evidence.

6. I have also heard the argument put forward by the learned

counsels of both sides.
7. The points for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether on or about 4.30 p.m. of 02-02-2018 at village Chariduar
under Chariduar Police station, the accused attempted to commit any
Page 3 of 10

offence punishable under the POCSO Act or to cause such an offence to
be committed and in such attempt, does any act towards the
commission of the offence, on Miss "X", aged about 12 years , and
thereby committed an offence punishable under section 18 of the
POCSO Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence
on record.
9. PW 1, Ashiram Lama, who is the complainant of this case. He*is

not an eye witness to the occurrence. He stated that he, knowssthe
accused. The incident took place in the month of February, 2018 at about
4.30 p.m. Victim is his daughter. At the time of incident.she was about 12
years. After the incident victim came by crying, told him that she went to
her Uncle (Bordeuta)’s house to watch TV. In the house of the accused
(her uncle) she was taken by her uncle to another room and latched the
door. Then she started to crying and ran towards their home. Then he
filed the ejahar. Ext. 1, the ejahar was.written by one scribe without his
instruction. The scribe has written the ejahar at his own will. After writing
the ejahar he has put signature. Ext. 1(1) is his signature. His daughter
was medically examined. by a doctor and she was sent to the learned
Magistrate for recording her statement. Thereafter, his victim daughter

was given custody to him

In\cross-examination, he admitted that prior to the incident his
victim daughter went to the house of the accused to watch TV in several
times»On arrival at home he came to know that the accused did not allow

to.watch Kartoon in TV and shut the door from outside.

10. PW 2 Smti Jyosoda Thapa turned hostile. The unhostile portion of
her evidence is that he knows the accused Ranjan Thapa. The incident took
place in the month of February, 2018 at about 4.30 p.m. Victim Miss X is her
sister-in-law. At the time of incident she was about 12 years. After the incident
victim came by crying, told her mother that she went to her Uncle (Bordeuta)’s

house to watch TV.

 
Page 4 of 10

In cross-examination by defence, she admitted that the house of
the accused is near their house. Prior to the incident, victim used to visit

the house of the accused quite off and on.

11. PW 3, the victim Miss “X” stated that she knows accused Ranjan
Thapa. They called him as “Bordeuta”. The incident took place about 5/6
months ago. On the day of incident as usual she went to the house of
Ranjan Thapa to watch Cartoon at TV. He took her to another room and
offered one hundred rupee note, out of fear she started to crying. By
opening the door she left the place by crying. Then she met Kumar Thapa
and came to her house by crying and reported the matter to her mother
and then to her father. Then her father lodged this FIR. Police recorded
her statement and examined through the doctor.«Thereafter, sent her to
the court to record statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C..Ext. 2 is the said statement
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and Ext. 2(1) and 2(2) are her signatures.

In cross-examination, she admitted that usually she went to the
house of the accused to watch.TV.as»she likes to see Cartoon. She made

statement before the learned Magistrate voluntarily.

12. PW 4Sri Sumit Bhuyan, who recorded the statement of the victim
u/s 164 Cr.P.C. stated, that on 03-02-2018 he was posted as Sub-
Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur and on that day in
reference to Special POCSO Case No. 26/18 , a minor girl namely, Miss
Bishnumaya.Lama, aged about 12 years, D/O Sri Ashiran Lama of village
MS*Road, Chariduar under Chariduar PS was produced before him for
recording her statement. The said victim was escorted and identified by
WHG Jamini Das. He recorded the statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. of the victim
girl in court Chamber. At the time of recording her statement other than
him and her none was present there. The victim made statement
voluntarily. After recording her statement, he has read over the contents
of the statement and on acceptance she put signature thereon. Ext 2 is
the statement of said victim Miss X and Ext. 2(2) is his signature. Ext. 3 is
her order dated 03-02-2018 and Ext.3(1) is his signature.

 
Page 5 of 10

13. PW 5 Sri Kumar Thapa, stated that he knows accused Ranjan
Thapa. Victim is his neighbor. At the relevant time she was about 12
years. The incident took place in a day in the month of February, 2018. At
the relevant time he was at home. Accused Ranjan Thapa is his father.
He heard hulla in another room where the victim raised alarm. In that
room his father was also there. Then he entered in the said room and
saw victim girl and his father. When he entered into the room his
father/accused left the room. Thereafter, a gathering took place.,/Local

public apprehended his father and took him to the police stations

In cross-examination he admitted that at the relevant time he was
on leave from his duty of MKM Supermarket, Bengalore. There are three
rooms in their house. In his house there are six members. Victim used to
visit their house quite off and on to watch TV.Atsthe relevant time he was
in sleeping in another room. On hearing hullay, he came to the room
where hulla took place. He has not asked anything to his father. He left
the place. During that time some of,the persons playing Ludu outside the
house. After about one hour he came back to his house and came to
know about the matter that his father has taken to the police station.
14. PW 6 Sri Dwijumoni Sarmah stated that on 02-02-2018 he was
posted as SI of police at Chariduar Police station. On that day, the then
O/C on receipt of a written ejahar filed by one Ashiram Lama and
registered a case. being Chariduar PS Case No. 34/18 u/s 376(2) (1)/511
of the IPG. r/w section 8 of POCSO Act and entrusted him for
investigation. He recorded the statement of complainant and victim at the
Chariduar Police station as they are willing to give statement on that very
day at the police station in presence of woman constable Dimpi Hazarika.
As there was a night so he did not visit the place of occurrence
immediately, so next day, he visited the place of occurrence and prepared
the sketch map. Ext. 4 is the sketch map and Ext. 4(1) is his signature.
Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(2) is the signature of the then O/C
Chariduar PS Satish Sahoo. On the next day of the day of filing the
ejahar, he has sent the victim girl for medical examination and sent to the
learned court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On the next day

of the day of filing the ejahar, he has also arrested the accused and

 
Page 6 of 10

forwarded him to the court. He has also collected the medical report of
the victim. In the medical report doctor reported that on examination the
doctor found no any external injury. After completion of investigation, he
filed chargesheet against the accused Ranjan Thapa u/s 8 of POCSO Act.
Ext. 5 is the said chargesheet and Ext. 5(1) is his signature.

He confirmed the statement of Josoda Thapa, who stated before
him that "accused called Bishnumaya to his house to watch TV, he took
victim to another room, latched the door, pressed her chest, then she
came out by crying, then my husband Kumar Thapa arrived at the place
and seen the incident, then my father-in-law fled away from the place of

occurrence”

Ext. 6 is the case diary of Chariduar PS Case No; 34/18 and Ext.
6(1) is the relevant portion of statement of witnessJosoda Thapa and
Ext. 6(2) is his signature.

In cross-examination he admitted that he has not recorded the
statement of the scribe of the ejahar. He has recorded the statement of
witnesses Kumar Thapa,and Josoda Thapa at the police station on the
day of incident at about,7.30 p.m. Victim did not made statement before

him that accused offered. or given Rs. 100/- to her.

15. | These much.is the evidence of the prosecution case.

16. —_I have heard the arguments of learned counsel of both sides.

17, Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly, the
victim herself did not state nowhere in her statement that accused
committed any sexual assault on her. Besides, she also did not state
anything about the attempt to cause sexual assault by the accused.
Secondly, other than victim, none was eye witness to the occurrence.
Though the prosecution story stated such that on being seen the son of
the accused, the accused left the victim, but his son PW 5 Kumar Thapa
did not say so. Thirdly, the statement made by the victim before this
court is contradictory of her own statement made before the learned
Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

 
Page 7 of 10

18. On the other hand, learned Public Prosecutor submitted that the
prosecution has ably prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt as
such, the accused is required to be convicted under charged section of

law.

19. Keeping in mind the rival submissions advanced by learned

counsel of both the parties I am going to dispose the case as follows.

20. Here in this case, the charge framed against the accused u/s/18 of
the POCSO Act. To prove the charge u/s 18 of the POCSO*Act, the
prosecution must prove that —
“To convict the accused section 18 of POCSO Act the prosecution
must prove that accused attempted to <commit\any offence
punishable under this act or to cause such an offence to be
committed, and in such attempt, does any Act towards the

commission of the offence.”

21. In this type of case, the,statement of the victim is utmost
important. When the victim did not«support the prosecution case it would
be futile to discuss the statement of other witnesses. It is again stated
that in this case, the victim stated that on the day of incident as usual she
went to the house. of the’ accused to watch TV. Accused took her to
another room/and offered her hundred rupee note, out of fear she started
crying and by. opening the door she left the place. Then she met Kumar
Thapa and came to her house and reported the matter to her parents.
"The term attempt’ has not been defined in the Indian Penal
Code. In the language of Stephen, an attempt to constitute a crime is an
act done with an intention to commit that crime and forming part of a
series of acts which would constitute its actual commission if it were not
interrupted. In other words, an attempt is an act done in part execution
of a criminal design, amounting to more than mere preparation, but
failing short of actual consummation, and possessing, except for failure to
consummate, all the elements of the substantive crime, combined with
the doing of some act adopted to, but failing short of, its actual

commission. It may be consequently be defined as that which if not

 
Page 8 of 10

prevented would have resulted in the full consummation of the act
attempted.”

Therefore, in the aforesaid statement of the victim, it could not
reveal that the accused has committed any attempt to victim with intent
to sexual assault. According to the victim, as usual she quite off and on
used to visit the house of the accused to watch cartoon in TV. On that
very day also victim went to the house of the accused to watch TV then
accused took her to another room and offered her one hundred rupee
note but her statement is silent that accused doing something with
attempt to cause sexual assault in any form. Therefore, the.statement of
the victim is silent as to commission of any attempt, to, cause sexual
assault. Merely, keeping the victim to another room ‘offered her one
hundred rupee note cannot be stated to be attempted\to commit sexual
assault.

The statement of PW 1, the complainant of this case and father of
the victim, also reveals no such materials that it is the accused who
attempted any form to commitsSexual. assault to his victim daughter. He
clearly stated that at the relevant.time, his victim daughter went to the
house of the accused to watch T:V. In the house of the accused she was
taken by her uncles(accused) to another room and latched the door. His
statement is also silent that accused committed any attempt with intent
to commit sexual assault to the victim.

22. Learned Public Prosecutor submitted that in the statement made
by victim before the learned Magistrate reveals sufficient materials of
attempt to commit sexual assault to the victim as she stated before the
learned Magistrate that while she went to the house of the accused to
watch TV accused took her to another room and closed the room and
hand over Rs. 100/- and touched her chest. On being seen by son of the
accused, she raised alarm and came out while the accused opened the
door. But law is well settled that an accused cannot be convicted on the
basis of statement made u/s 164 Cr.P.C., unless, the victim does not
states anything in the court as to the alleged offence. The statement u/s

164 Cr.P.C. is used for corroboration and contradictions.

 
Page 9 of 10

23. As discussed herein above, the victim failed to state any allegation
of any attempt to commit sexual assault, therefore, I have no option but
to hold that the prosecution has failed to prove the alleged charge against

the accused beyond any reasonable doubt.

24. Under such circumstances, accused Ranjan Thapa is acquitted on
benefit of doubt from the charge u/s 18 of the POCSO Act and set him at
liberty forthwith.

25. The liability of the bailor is hereby discharged.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the,15” day
of December, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

(R. Hazarika), Steno
Page 10 of 10

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1 . Complainant Ashiram Lama
Prosecution Witness No.2 : Jyosoda Thapa

Prosecution Witness No.3 i Victim Miss X

Prosecution Witness No.4 I= Sri S. Bhuyan, SDJM, Sonitpur
Prosecution Witness No.5 = Sri Kumar Thapa

Prosecution Witness No.6 = Sri Dwijumoni Sarmah, I.O.

EX H IBI TS.

Exhibit 1 : Ejahar
Exhibit 2 : 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.
Exhibit 3 : Order dated 03-02-2018 of SDJM,Sonitpur.
Exhibit 4 > Sketch map
Exhibit 5 ty Chargesheet.
Exhibit 6 : Case diary of Charduar PSCase No.34/18.
(A.K. Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,

SONITPUR: TEZPUR
