eCourtIS copy

IN THE COURT OF ADDL SPECIAL JUDGE ::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,
Addl. Sessions Judge (FTC),

Kokrajhar.
SPECIAL CASE NO.35/2018
U/S.354A of IPC R/W Section 8 of
POCSO Act
STATE OF ASSAM
Vs
Md. Habibor Rohman Miah
S/O Lt. Abdul Mazid Miah
Vill:- No.1 Hasrawbari
P.S. Gossaigaon
District Kokrajhar
beeeees Accused person.
Appearance: -
Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Monjit Kr. Ghose
Learned Counsel for the defence Mr. Prasenjit Dutta
Charge framed on 14.02.2019
Evidence recorded on 15.03.2019; 30.03.2019
Argument heard on 30.03.2019

Judgment pronounced on 30.03.2019
JUDGMENT

1. The case of the prosecution is that on 13.09.2017 one xxx, the
father of the victim, lodged an FIR with the In-charge of Sapkata police
Out-post alleging that on 13.09.2017, at about 7 AM his daughter, the
victim, had gone to Maktab where the accused called her and touched
her breast and attempted to forcefully take the victim to his residence.
The informant also alleged at about 2 / 3 months back the accused had

committed a similar act with the victim, a minor girl.
eCourtIS copy
2. The FIR was sent to Gossaigaon Police Station. On receipt of the
FIR, a case under Section 354/354(A) IPC R/W Section 8 of POCSO Act
was registered and investigated. Upon completion of investigation, a
charge-sheet was laid against the accused for the offences under

Section 354(A) of IPC and R/W Section 8 of POCSO Act.

3. The case was transferred to this Court for disposal. The accused
was summoned. On appearance of the accused, copies of the relevant
documents were furnished to the accused and upon hearing both sides
charges U/S 8 of POCSO Act and Section 354 (A) of IPC were framed

against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

4. In the course of trial, prosecution examined seven witnesses. At
the closure of prosecution evidence, accused was examined U/S 313 of

CrPC. The plea of the accused is total denial.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether the accused person on 13.09.2017 at about 7-00 AM
touched the breasts of victim xxx, a minor girl, at Hasraobari
No.1 village Masjid with sexual intent involving physical contact
without penetration and thereby committed an_ offence

punishable U/S 8 of POCSO Act ?

(ii) Whether the accused person on the same day and time
touched the breast of victim Sabina Yasmin, a minor girl
involving physical contact involving explicit sexual overtures and

thereby committed an offence punishable U/S 354 (A) of IPC ?
eCourtIS copy

DECISION WITH REASONS :-

5. Pwl xxx, the informant and the father of the victim, deposed
that the incident occurred about 1 and half years back at Hasrabari No.
1 Masjid. He had heard that accused has outraged the modesty of his
daughter who is aged about 15 years. On being asked by the general

public he lodged an FIR. He had put thumb impression in the FIR.

6. In cross-examination, PW1 stated that he does not know the
contents of the FIR. He also deposed that his daughter had not

reported him anything about the occurrence.

7. Pw 2 Ms. Khalisa Begum deposed that she knows the victim. She
deposed that about 1 and half years back, at about 8 a.m, she and the
victim were going towards home after attending their religious classes
at Maktab. At that time, accused called the victim and asked her about
her education. At this, the victim said that her performance is not good.
Accused then rebuked the victim and she started crying. Local people
then gathered and apprehended that accused has misbehaved with the

victim.

8. Pw3 , the victim, deposed that about 1 and half years back, at
about 8 a.m, she and Khalisa were going towards home after attending
their religious classes at Maktab. At that time accused called her and
asked her about her education. When she said that her performance is
not good, accused rebuked her and she started crying. Local people
then gathered and apprehended that accused has misbehaved with

her.
eCourtIS copy
9. In cross examination PW3 stated that she gave a_ statement

under Section 164 CrPC as per the instructions given by public.

10. Pw4 Md. Anowar Hussain deposed that he had heard that
accused had rebuked the victim regarding her education and that due

to mistake of fact, the informant lodged a case against the accused.

11. Pw5 Ajom Ali Khan deposed that the occurrence took place about
1 year back. In the afternoon hours when he returned from his shop he
heard that xxx, the father of the victim, has lodged a case against the

accused regarding misbehaviour of the accused with his daughter.

12. Pw6 Amir Ali Khan deposed that about one year ago he heard
that there was a dispute between xxx, the father of the victim, and
accused. Since his house is at a distance he did not inquire the matter

any further.

13. Pw7 xxx, is the mother of the victim. She deposed that about
one year back her daughter had gone to Maktab. She heard that
accused had questioned her daughter regarding her education at which
her daughter started crying. Soon thereafter villagers assembled and

the case was lodged against the accused.

14. The evidence of all the material witnesses in this case have ben
reproduced above. The evidence makes it apparent that there is
absolutely no ingredients of any evidence against the accused
regarding the offences charged. In these circumstances, a conviction of

the accused cannot be sustained on the charges.

15. The points for determination are answered in negative.
eCourtIS copy

ORDER
Accused Habibor Rahman Miah is acquitted of the

charges under Section 8 of the POCSO Act and
under Section 354 (A) of IPC and set at liberty

forthwith.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court on this

30" day of March,2019.

Dictated by

Addl. Special Judge Addl Special Judge
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
eCourtIS copy

Appendix

1. Prosecution Exhibits :-

Exhibit-1 Statement
Exhibit-2 Statement of victim
2. Defence Exhibit Nil

3. Prosecution Witness

P.W.1 xxx, Father of the victim
P.W.2 Ms. Khalisa Begum
P.W.3 Victim
P.W.4 Md. Anowar Hussain
P.W.5 Md. Ajom Ali
P.W.6 Md. Amir Ali
P.W.7 xxx, Mother of the victim
4.Defence Witness Nil
5. Court witness Nil

Addl. Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
