1.
accused namely, Md. Hedayat Ullah, (S/o Md. Samsul Hoque of village Buwalguri,
under Lahorighat PS in the district of Morigaon), hadeloped the minor niece of
the informantby way of inducement nearby Kalikajari Masjid and took her inside

a dry pond and committed rape upon her. Thereafter, the accused fled away by

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, MORIGAON

Spl. (POCSO) Case No. 16/2017
U/S 366 A/376 (2)IPC, R/W Section 4 of POCSO Act

Present : Mr. Dhrupad Kashyap Das
Sessions Judge, Morigaon.
State of Assam
Vs.

Md. Hedayat Ullah
beveeeeeues Accused Person

Date of Charge :- 21.08.2017.
Date of recording evidence :- 10.11.2017.
Date of Argument :-10.11.2017.
Date of Judgment :-13.11.2017.

Appearance for the Parties
Advocate for the State:- Mr. A. Kalam, Ld. P.P.

Advocate for the accused:- Mr. P.R. Bora, Ld. Advocate.

JUDGMENT

The prosecution case in brief is that on 05.01.2015, at about 9.00 PM, the

leaving her inside the pond.Hence the case.
On 08.01.2015, the informant went to the Mikirbheta PS and lodged an
F.I.R. On receipt of the F.I.R., the O.C of Mikirbheta PS registered a case vide
Mikirbheta PS Case No.06/2015, U/s 366 A of IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO
Act.

After receipt of the same, the investigation was set in motion. During the
course of investigation, the I.O. visited the place of occurrence and drew sketch
map of the place of occurrence. The I.O. examined the material witnesses and
got the victim medically examined and also I.0. brought the victim to the learned
Court below for recording her statement U/s 164 Cr.P.C before the Magistrate.
Thereafter, the I.O. collected the medical report and upon completion of
investigation, he submitted charge-sheet against the above-named accused with
allegation of offence punishable U/s 366 A/376 IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO
Act, showing the accused person as absconder.Accordingly, the accused person
was surrendered before this Sessions Courtand he was let off on court bail.
Thereafter, this Court finding it to be exclusively triable by this court furnished
copies of relevant documents as mandate U/s 207 of Cr.PC. to the accused
person. Having heard Ld. Counsel of both sides and basing upon the materials on
record, framed charges U/s 366 A/376 (2) IPC r/w Section 4 of the POCSO Act
against the accused person, which was read over and explained to the accused

person to which he pleaded innocence and claimed to be tried.

2. Point for determination :

(i) Whether the accused personon the eventful day i.e. on 05.01.2015 at
about9.00 PM at village Madhyam Kalikajari under Mikirbheta PS,
induced the minor niece of the informantto go from her house with
him with intent that the said minor girl may be or shall be forced or
seduced to illicit intercourse with him?

(ii) Whether the accused person on the same day, time and place

committed rape with the said minor niece of the informant?
(iii) | Whether the accused person on the same day, time and
place,committed an offence of penetrative sexual assault as defined
U/s 3/4 of the POCSO Act with the niece of the informant?

as In this case prosecution has examined 2 (Two) PWs includingthe most
material witnesses of this case, the informant, who is theuncle of the victim as
PW-1 and the victim girl as PW-2. But their evidence did not support the
prosecution case on material aspects. In such circumstances, prosecution was
not willing to examine the remaining witnesses and at the instance of the
prosecution its evidence stands closed. Having found no incriminating materials
against the accused, the examination of accused as warranted U/s 313 Cr.P.C.
was dispensed with for the ends of justice. The accused declined to adduce

defence evidence.

4. I have heard argument so advanced by Ld. Counsel of both sides.

Considering the evidence on record, I have come to the following decisions.

5. DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

In this case, it is alleged by the prosecution that on the eventful day the
above-named accused personcommitted rape upon the minor niece of the
informant.
(a) To prove this fact, the prosecution has examined PW-1,Md. Usman Ali, he
in hisevidence stated that he lodged the case. The victim girl is his niece. He
knows the accused person. At the relevant time of the incident, his niece was 18
years old. The victim girl and the accused had love affair. But, the family
members were not agreeing to that relationship. Being aggrieved, the family

members told him to lodge the case against the accused person.

In his cross-examination, PW-1 stated that the case was lodged out of
misunderstanding. He does not know the contents of the ejahar. He has no

objection if, the accused person is released.
(b) PW-2,Victim X, in her evidence stated that,her uncle lodged this case. She
knows the accused person. She had love affair with the accused person. But, her
family members did not agree to their relationship and one day a dispute had
arisen between both the family members. Later on, her marriage was solemnized
by her family members.

During cross-examination, she stated that the case was lodged out of
misunderstanding. She does not know the contents of the ejahar and she has no

objection, if the accused is released.

3. Thus, we have found that none of the witnesses including the most vital
witnesses as PW-1 and PW-2 (i.e. the informant and the victim respectively)
examined by the prosecution have not stated anything as regards to kidnapping,
committing rape and penetrative sexual assault being allegedly committed by the

accused.

4. Considering the evidence on record, we have found that the material part
of the prosecution case remained un-substantiated, as the informant, who is the
uncle of the victim and the victim have clearly statedthat there was love affair
between the accused and victim and her family members were not agreed to
their relationship therefore, the case was lodged against the accused. But both
the PWs during their cross-examination have stated that the case was lodged out
of misunderstanding and they have no objection if, the accused person is
released. So, we have found that the most material witnesses of this case as PW-
1& PW-2 did not support the prosecution allegation in its material aspects.
Section 232 Cr.P.C. mandates an acquittal of the accused from an offence, which
states that “If, after taking the evidence for the prosecution, examining the
accused and hearing the prosecution and the defence on the point, the Judge
considers that there is no evidence that the accused committed the offence, the

Judge shall record an order of acquittal.”
5. In view of the above discussion and in view of Section 232 Cr.P.C., I have
found that the prosecution has failed to establish the guilt of the accused beyond
any reasonable doubt. In the result, the accused personis not found guilty for the
offences punishable U/s 366 A/376 (2)of IPC, r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act and as
such, he is acquitted and set him at liberty. His bail bond shall remain extended

till next six months.

Judgment is delivered and pronounced in the open Court on this 13" day

of November, 2017 under my hand and seal.

Dictated & corrected by me Special Judge.
Morigaon.

APPENDIX

A. Prosecution witness

1. PW-1 :- Md.Usman Ali

2. PW-2 :- Miss. Mamoni Khatun.
B. Defencewitness : Nil.

C. Prosecution Exhibit :

D. Defenceexhibits :- Nil.

Special Judge,
Morigaon.
