CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 79/15

Informant: Sri Paban Bhumij,
S/o- Late Kondra Bhumij,
R/o- Dikom Sessa Gaon,
PS- Lahoal,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Sanjib Pator,
S/o- Sri Bishnu Pator,
R/o- Kuhiarbari Gaon,
PS- Lahoal,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. A Rob, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 79/15
G.R. Case No. 2956/15

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Sanjib Pator

Charges: Under Section 6, read with Section 5(m) POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on: 22-03-16, 22-05-16, 25-05-16, 07-11-16 and 08-12-16.
Date of argument =: 19-12-17.
Date of Judgment _: 17-01-18.

JUDGMENT

1) The prosecution case that stems out from the FIR is that on 19-10-15, at

2)

about 3:30 pm, Sri Sanjib Pator (hereinafter the accused) who was working
as a labour in Sri Paban Bhumij’'s (hereinafter the informant/complainant)
house, committed rape on the nine year old niece of Sri Paban Bhumij. The
accused was apprehended and handed over to the police. The informant
lodged an ejahar which was registered as GD Entry No. 301 dtd. 19-10-15
and the same was forwarded to Lahoal Police Station. The FIR was registered
as Lahoal PS Case No. 747/15 under Section 376 of the Indian Penal Code
(IPC in short), r/w Section 8 of the Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter the POCSO Act) and SI Debojyoti Phukan was
entrusted with the investigation.

The investigating officer (IO in short) embarked upon the investigation and
forwarded the victim to the Magistrate for recording her statement under
Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC in short). The victim was
forwarded to the medical officer for examination. The IO also went to the
place of occurrence and recorded the statements of the witnesses and
prepared the Sketch-Map. On finding prima facie materials, the IO submitted
Charge-Sheet against the accused under Sections 376(f) IPC, r/w Section 8 of
the POCSO Act.
3)

4)

)

6)

7)

8)

On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and after hearing both
the sides, a formal charge under Section 6 of the POCSO Act was framed,
read over and explained to the accused. The accused abjured his guilt and
claimed innocence.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of eight
witnesses including the medical officer (MO in short) and the IO and
exhibited several documents. The accused cross-examined the witnesses in
extenso to refute the charges. To the circumstances arising against him, the
answers of the accused depicts a plea of total denial.
SUBMISSIONS:
The learned Public Prosecutor Smti. Runumi Devi and learned Addl. Public
Prosecutor Smti. Sehnaz Akhtar submitted that this case has been proved
beyond reasonable doubt and stringent punishment ought to be inflicted on
the accused to set an example and to deprecate such offences. On the
contrary, the learned defence counsel laid stress in his argument that this
case is bereft of evidence and is replete with contradictions and the accused
deserves acquittal.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

To decide the case in its right perspective, the following points are apposite
to be taken up for decision:

i. Whether the accused committed agravated penetrative

sexual assault on the nine years old victim X?
DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

To decide the case in its right perspective, it is necessary to delve into the
evidence.
The victim stated as PW-1 that she used to stay with her maternal uncle and

at that time, the accused also used to stay in her uncle Paban Bhumij’s
house. Her mother passed away and so to pursue her studies, she used to
stay in her uncle’s house. The incident took place prior to Durga Puja of
2015. On the day of the incident, at about 4:00 pm, she went with her cousin
Lobin Bhumij to the field to collect grass. After cutting grass, her brother
returned home. She met the accused who suggested her to accompany him
so that she could show her kushia fish (eel). At that time, the accused caught
her and pushed her to the ground. He removed her panty and inserted his

penis in her private part, gagging her in order to prevent her from screaming.
9)

She somehow managed to escape from the accused and she carried her
panty in her hand and rushed towards her house. When she reached home,
she informed her aunt about the incident. Then her aunt went out, searching
for the accused person. In the evening, when her uncle returned, her aunt
narrated about the incident to her uncle. She changed her clothes and took
bath. Her uncle informed the Gaonburah about the incident. She and her
uncle went to the police station and the police recorder her statement. On
the next day, she went to Assam Medical College & Hospital, Dibrugarh for
medical examination. She also appeared before the Magistrate who recorded
her statement. Ext. 1 is her statement before the Magistrate and Ext. 1(1)
upto Ext. 1(3) are her signatures.

It is pertinent to mention at this stage that the witness was not administered
oath. Several questions were asked to the witness and considering that her
answers were rational, her statement was recorded without administering

oath, because she was ten years at the time of the incident.

10) Sri Paban Bhumij testified as PW-2 that the accused person used to reside in

his house as a labour. The victim X is his niece. After the death of her mother,
he used to take care of his niece who is about ten years at present. The
incident took place before the Durga Pooja of the previous year (2015). On
the day of the incident, at about 4:30 pm, he returned home from work and
his wife informed him that when X went to the nearby field, near the dyke,
the accused gagged her and committed rape on her. After the incident, the
victim returned to her house, holding the panty in her hand and informed his
wife about the incident. He asked the victim about the incident and the victim
informed him that when she went to the field to bring back the cattle, the
accused person arrived there and suggested her to accompany him so that
he could show her kushia fish (eel). Then the accused removed her panty
and committed rape on her. Then he went out and found the accused and
caught him and brought him to his house and he called the Gaonburah Sri
Gubordhan Pator. The Gaonburah came to his house and asked the victim
about the incident and thereafter, advised him to lodge an ejahar with the
police. He asked the VDP Secretary to write the FIR and accordingly, the VDP
Secretary wrote the FIR according to his narrative. Ext. 2 is the FIR and Ext.
2(1) is his signature. He also took X to the police station and the police

recorded her statement. On the next day, the victim was taken for medical
examination and to the Magistrate for recording her statement.

11)If we scrutinize the evidence, it is apparent that the evidence of PW-1 is
perfectly corroborated by the evidence of PW-2. The cross-examination of
PWs-1 and 2 could not rebut the evidence of PWs-1 and 2. PW-2 stated in his
cross-examination that he affixed his signature on the Ext. 1 in the police
station and the scribe of the FIR did not affix his signature on the Ext. 1. It is
apparent from the evidence of PWs-1 and 2 that the accused used to work as
a domestic help in PW-2's house at the time of the incident. Their evidence
remained uncontradicted and uncontroverted.

12) The evidence of PWs-1 and 2 is also corroborated by the evidence of PW-3
Smti. Lakhimoni Bhumij. She stated that the accused was a domestic help in
their house. The incident took place on the first day of Durga Puja in the year
2015. On that day, the victim went to bring back their cattle from the field.
Then the accused took her along with him to show kushia fish (eel) and
thereafter, the accused gagged her and removed her panty and committed
rape on her. The victim was in tears when she returned home and informed
her about the incident. Then her husband Paban Bhumij returned home and
X informed Pahan Bhumij about the incident. Her husband slapped the
accused and called the Gaonburah. Accordingly, the Gaonburah came to his
house and her husband went to the police station along with the victim. The
police came to their house on the next day and recorded her statement. She
also came to the court along with the victim X at the time of investigation. X
is at present eleven years of age. This evidence of PW-3 remained
uncontradictes and uncontroverted. This evidence of PW-3 corroborated the
evidence of PWs-1 and 2 like hand in glove.

13) In sync with the evidence of PWs-1, 2 and 3, Sri Bishnu Pator testified as PW-
4 that the accused is his son and the incident took place in the month of
October, 2015. At the time of the incident, his son used to stay in Paban
Bhumij’s house to help Paban Bhumij with his cultivation. On the evening of
the incident, he went to Paban Bhumij’s house and came to know that his son
committed rape on the victim X when she went to the field to fetch cattle.
After the incident, Paban lodged an ejahar with the police at Dikom Outpost.

14)In his cross-examination, he testified that he did not know about the
incident.

15) The evidence of the VDP member Sri Ram Pator corroborates and supports
the evidence of PWs-1, 2, 3 and 4. Sri Ram Pator testified as PW-5 that the
complainant is his neighbors. The incident took place at the time of Durga
Pooja of the previous year. On the day of the incident, Paban Bhumij’s son
came to his house in the evening and informed him that the accused
committed rape on Paban’s niece who used to stay in Paban’s house after her
mother’s death. Paban’s niece X was ten years of age. Then he immediately
went to Paban’s house and noticed that the villagers have already assembled
in Paban’s house. He met the accused and the villagers took him to the
Dikom Outpost. He also accompanied them and the police recorded his
statement.

16) His cross-examination also remained uncontroverted and uncontradicted.

17)The Gaonburah Sri Gobardhan Pator testified as PW-6 that the informant
Paban Bhumij was known to him. The incident took place about 3/4 months
back. On the evening of the incident, he heard a commotion in Paban
Bhumij’s house and he went there and noticed that the accused was
confronted by the villagers in Paban’s house. He learnt from Paban Bhumij
that the accused committed rape on Paban’s minor niece who used to stay in
his house. The age of the victim was nine years at that time. The villagers
decided to hand over the accused to the police. Accordingly, they handed
over the accused to the police at Dikom Outpost. This evidence of PW-6
corroborates the evidence of PW-2.

18) On scrutiny of the entire evidence, it is thereby held that there is clinching
evidence that the accused committed rape on the victim. It is true that the
injuries could not be detected on the medical examination of the victim, but it
is a Settled principle of law that even without injuries, the accused is liable of
the offence of rape if the evidence of the witnesses inspire confidence.

19) The medical officer Dr. Mohsina Ahmed examined the victim on 20-10-15 in
connection with this case and her opinion was that the victim was above
eight years, but below ten years. There was no evidence of recent injury on
her body or private part. There was also no evidence of recent sexual
intercourse on her person. Ext. 7 is the Medico-Legal Report wherein Ext.
7(1) upto Ext. 7(3) are her signatures.

20)Section 29 of the POCSO Act expounds that where a person is
prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any

offence under Sections 3, 5, 7 and 6 of this Act, the Special Court
shall presume that such a person has committed the offence, unless
the contrary is proved. In the instant case, the contrary could not be
proved. Moreover, the evidence of the victim inspires confidence. The
evidence of other witnesses also inspires confidence.

21) Section 30 of the POCSO Act also expound as follows:

“30. (1) In any prosecution for any offence under this Act
which requires a culpable mental state on the part of the
accused, the Special Court shall presume the existence of
such mental state but it shall be a defence for the
accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental
state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that
prosecution.

(2) For the purposes of this section, a fact is said to be
proved only when the Special Court believes it to exist
beyond reasonable doubt and not merely when its
existence is established by a preponderance of probability.
Explanation.— In this section, "culpable mental state"
includes intention, motive, knowledge of a fact and the
belief in, or reason to believe, a fact.

22) Reverting back to this instant case, it is held that the accused took the victim
to a secluded place in the pretext of showing her some eel. The culpable
mental status of the accused can be deduced from his conduct. Regarding
lack of medical evidence, in the instant case, the victim was examined after
some delay which led to the disappearance of the medical evidence. The IOs
cross-examination could not impeach the testimony of the witnesses. The IOs
cross-examination also could not contradict the evidence of the other
witnesses. It is clear that the incident took place during the time of Durga
Puja of 2015.

23)The evidence of the IO SI Debojyoti Phukan as PW-7 depicts that he duly
conducted the investigation. On 19-10-15, he received information over
phone at about 9:00 pm and registered a GD Entry No. 300 dtd. 19-10-15
and immediately, proceeded to the area at Kuhiarbari. He met the accused
and the victim and brought them to the outpost. Then he took the victim to
the Lahoal PHC. On the same night, Paban Bhumij lodged an ejahar and after
registering a GD Entry No. 301 dtd. 19-10-15, he forwarded the ejahar which
was registered as Lahoal PS Case No. 147/15. Ext. 2 is the FIR and Ext. 2(2)
is the signature of the Officer-in-charge (OC in short) of Lahoal Police Station
with his endorsement. After completion of investigation, he submitted
Charge-Sheet against the accused. Ext. 5 is the Charge-Sheet and Ext. 5(1) is
his signature. Ext. 6 is the extract copy of the GD Entry No. 300 and Ext. 6(1)
is his signature. Ext. 4 is the Sketch-Map of the place of occurrence and Ext.
4(1) is his signature.

24) It is clear from the Sketch-Map that the place of occurrence is amidst a paddy
field which has been clearly depicted by the evidence of PW-1. The statement
of PW-1 under Section 164 CrPC is consistent to her testimony in the court.
The statement of the victim under Section 164 CrPC and her testimony in the
court clearly depicts that the accused committed penetrative sexual assault
on her.

25) Recapitulating the entire evidenced, it is thereby held that there is clinching
evidence that the accused is complicit.

26) According to the medical officer’s opinion, the age of the victim is above eight
years, but below ten years. In this context, I would like to rely on the
decision of Hon’be the Supreme Court of India in Jaya Malla vs. Home
Secretary, Govt. of India |AIR 1982 SC 1297] wherein it was observed
that one can take judicial notice that the margin of error in age ascertained
by radiological examination, two years on the either side.

27) Reverting back to this case, I would like to extend the benefit of two years of
the victim on the higher side. As the victim is said to be below ten years, her
age is taken to be above twelve years. Considering the variations of the
radiological examination, instead of holding the accused guilty of offence
under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, he is held guilty of offence under Section
4 of the POCSO Act by virtue of Section 222(2) CrPC.

28) Heard the accused on the point of sentence. He has answered that he has to
take care of his parents and he will suffer immensely in case of prolonged
confinement.

29)I have considered the age and antecedent of the accused. There was no
brutality to be detected on medical examination of the victim. Considering the
age of the victim, it is held that such an offence has to be deprecated and
discouraged. Suffice it to mention that imprisonment for seven years will act

as a deterrent and also send a message to the society at large.
SENTENCE:

30) The accused Sri Sanjib Pator is convicted under Section 4 POCSO Act and is
sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 7 (seven) years and a find
of Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees One Thousand) only, in default of payment of fine, to
undergo rigorous imprisonment for 1 (one) year. The period of detention
already undergone by the accused during investigation and trial is set off with
his custodial sentence.

31) Furnish free copies of judgment to the accused and to the District Magistrate.

32) The victim who has undergone such an ordeal deserves compensation. This
case is thereby recommended for compensation to the District Legal Services
Authority, Dibrugarh to decide the quantum of compensation to be awarded
to the victim under the Victim’s Compensation Scheme, 2012.

Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 17" day of

January, 2018.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
10

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. PW-1 The victim X;
2. PW-2 Sri Pawan Bhumij;
3. PW-3 Smti. Lakhimoni Bhumij;
4. PW-4 Sri Bishnu Pator;
5. PW-5 Sri Ram Pator;
6. PW-6 Sri Gobardhan Pator;
7. PW-7 SI Debojyoti Phukan;
8. PW-8 Dr. Mohsina Ahmed.
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;
2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;
3. Ext. 3 Printed proforma of FIR;
4. Ext. 4 Sketch-Map;
5. Ext. 5 Charge-Sheet;
6. Ext. 6 Extract copy of Dicom Outpost GDE No. 300 dtd. 19-11-15; and
7. Ext. 7 Medico-legal Report.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None.

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
