Page 1 of 9

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 10/15

Informant: Sri Raju Murah,
S/o- Late Digambar Murah,
R/o- No. 1 Duliajan Bijulibari,
PS- Duliajan,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Ranjan Bora,
S/o- Late Mahuram Borah,
R/o- Joyanagar Chandan Path,
PS- Duliajan,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES: -
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. UK Saha, learned Advocate.

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH
Page 2 of 9

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 10/15
G.R. Case No. 3323/14

State of Assam
-Vs-

Sri Ranjan Borah

Charge: under Section 4 PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 13-03-15, 31-03-15, 13-05-15, 14-07-15 &
26-11-15.

Date of argument : 09-06-16.

Date of Judgment : 23-06-16.

1)

UDGMENT

Prosecution case is that the prosecutrix, a minor aged about 10
years was working as the maid servant at the house of the accused
person and used to look after his baby. The wife of the accused
person, a school teacher used to go out for duty and during this
period, the accused person committed penetrative sexual acts upon
the prosecutrix. On 26-12-14, the father of the prosecutrix lodged
an ejahar at the Duliajan Police Station and_ investigation
commenced. In course of the investigation, the Investigating Officer
visited the place of occurrence, prepared Sketch-Map, got the
statement of the prosecutrix recorded under Section 164 CrPC,
medically examined her and on completion of investigation,
submitted the Charge-Sheet.

Upon committal, my learned predecessor framed charge under
Section 4 of Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act
(hereinafter PCSO Act) against the accused person and the charge
was read over and explained to the accused person to which he
pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

In course of trial, prosecution examined six witnesses and on
conclusion thereof, the accused person was examined under
Section 313 CrPC wherein the accused person took the plea of
denial. Defence also examined two witnesses on behalf of the
accused.
Page 3 of 9

4) Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and Mr. Saha, learned
counsel for the defence.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION
1. Whether the prosecutrix was a child within the meaning of
Section 2(d) of the Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter ‘the Act’)?
2. Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault
upon the prosecutrix?
DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

5) PW-3 Dr. Nibedita Shyam deposed that on 27-12-14, she examined
the prosecutrix on police requisition and on the basis of physical
and radiological investigation, her age was found to be above 12
years and below 14 years. The age of the prosecutrix is not
disputed by the defence and hence, it is established that the
prosecutrix was a child at the time of occurrence.

Point No. 2:

6) PW-1, the prosecutrix deposed that the accused had gone to her
house and taken her to his house to look after his baby by saying
that he will send her school and she went to his house and stayed
there for two months and the wife of the accused and his baby were
also present in the house of the accused. She further stated that the
wife of the accused was a teacher by profession and used to go to
the school during the day and during the day time, the accused
used to take off her frock and pull down his pant and used to press
his penis against her vagina and when she felt pain and began to
cry, the accused used to take it out. The accused also used to do
the same at night when his wife was sleeping. She further stated
that she used to sleep in the same room as his wife on a folding bed
and he used to take her photograph on his mobile phone after
taking off her clothes and threatened her that if she speaks to
anybody about the occurrence, he would show the photograph to
her parents and also used to threatened to kill her if she revealed
anything. She further stated that such occurrence took place on
several days and it became so painful that she had to pass urine in
standing position and the accused also asked her whether he should
Page 4 of 9

make baby for her. One day, in the morning, when she became
senseless, the accused took her to her parent’s house and
thereafter, the accused took her to a hospital situated at Duliajan
along with her father and elder brother. During the day, she stayed
in the hospital and the attending doctor gave her injection and
Saline and in the evening, the accused brought her and her father
home in his car and the accused left for home. She narrated the
incident to her mother, who lodged the ejahar. She further stated
that her statement was recorded by Magistrate wherein she had
stated as follows:
“| cannot remember when my mother and father had
given me to Sri Ranjan Bora for looking after his baby. The
wife of Sri Ranjan Bora does service in the school. After
going of his wife to the school, Sri Ranjan Bora forcefully
tied my hands/feet, took off my cloth, panty and does bad
work with me. He often does the same and thereafter, |
feel severe pain and feel pain at the time of passing urine
for which | have to pass urine in standing position. Sri
Ranjan Bora does bad work with me and he _ takes
photograph and told me that if | say anything to any
person, he will show the same to police. | therefore, do not
say anything to anybody out of fear. He used to do bad
work with me on each day. One day, when | was looking
after the baby, | fell down and then Sri Ranjan Bora took
me to hospital and gave information to my house. My
father and my elder brother had gone and thereafter, |
had gone to my house. | told my mother that Sri Ranjan
Bora used to do bad work with me. Thereafter, the nearby
people came and gave police after writing. Police sent me
to the doctor.”

7) During cross-examination, PW-1 stated that the accused used to do
bad deed with her every day for two months during her stay at his
house both during the day and also at night. She admitted that she
did not report the incident to anybody during her stay for two
month in the house of the accused. This appears to be somewhat
surprising because the informant and father of the prosecutrix
10)

11)

Page 5 of 9

deposed during cross-examination that he used to visit the house of
the accused occasionally and used to spend 10-15 minutes there
and also used to talk to his daughter, but she did not tell him
anything when he used to visit her.

Similarly, the mother of the prosecutrix PW-4 also stated during
cross-examination that she went to meet her daughter twice while
she was staying in the house of the accused for over a period of two
months and she used to spend about half an hour there and used to
talk to her daughter, but her daughter did not make any complaint
before her about any such incident.

It is true that PW-1 deposed that the accused used to threaten her
that he would kill her if she tells it to anybody and also took her
naked photographs on his mobile phone and that if she spoke to
anybody, he would show her photographs to her parents.

The question that arises is that why would the accused would
show the naked photographs of the prosecutrix taken in his own
mobile phone to the parents of the prosecutrix and thereby make
himself open to self-incrimination. In her statement recorded before
the Magistrate, the prosecutrix had stated that the accused
threatened her that he would show the photographs to the police if
she reveal the matter to anybody, which equally does not make any
sense. Therefore, the reason assigned by the prosecution for not
disclosing the matter to anybody, not even to her own mother and
father for the entire period of two months, despite ample
opportunity and despite being in pain, appears to be improbable.

The prosecutrix has also deposed that the accused repeatedly
penetrated her vagina every day for two months throughout day
and night and it became so painful she has to pass urine in standing
position. But the doctor Dr. Nibedita Shyam of Assam Medical
College & Hospital, Dibrugarh who was examined as PW-3 deposed
in her examination-in-chief that no evidence of recent injury was
detected on her body or private part and if sexual intercourse is
done continually with a girl of 12-14 years, on several occasions,
there will be clear tears in the hymen. But in the present case, she
did not find any such type of tear, rather she detected an intact
hymen. Therefore, the version of the prosecutrix regarding the
Page 6 of 9

forcible penetration is not corroborated by the medical evidence
also. Rather, it is contradicted.

12) The prosecutrix during cross-examination stated that she used to
sleep in the same room as the wife of the accused, but on a
separate bed and the accused used to sleep with his wife and the
baby. The bed on which the prosecutrix used to sleep was a folding
bed made of iron and plastic and its size was 3 ¥% feet x 6 feet and
it was an old bed. The accused used to get onto her bed to at
around 9:00 pm. This version appears to be highly improbable, in as
much as, if a grown up person like the accused gets on to an old
iron-plastic folding bed and indulges any such act involving bodily
movement, the bed would definitely make creaking sounds which
would definitely reach the ears of the wife of the accused sleeping
on the next bed in the same room. Since the wife of the accused
was sleeping with a baby, she could be awake or be woken up at
any time. Under such circumstances, no husband would take such
risk, especially when he had the opportunity to do such acts when
his wife was away during the day time. For these reasons, | find the
version of the prosecutrix to be quite incredible and unsafe to rely
upon. The Hon'ble Apex Court had occasion to observe that child
witness can be dangerous witness as they are much susceptible to
tutoring and Court’s must be extremely cautious in acting upon
their testimony.

13) The prosecutrix also admitted during her cross-examination that
in addition to the charges paid regularly by the accused, the father
of the prosecutrix took money from the accused and some other
parties also took money from the accused. During cross-
examination of the PW 2 & 4, father and mother of the prosecutrix,
it was suggested to them that they had lodged false ejahar against
the accused person intending to extract money from the accused by
using their daughter.

14) The defence examined Smti. Gitarani Das the wife of the
accused as DW-1 who stated that the allegation against her
husband are totally false. She further stated that one day during her
stay in the house, the prosecutrix became ill and accordingly, they
took her to OIL Hospital, Duliajan and after treatment, they took her
Page 7 of 9

to her parent’s house. On the next day, two boys came to their
house and called her husband to the house of the parents of the
victim and when her husband arrived there, both the boys
demanded huge amount of money from her husband, but her
husband refused to pay the same to the said two boys. Later on,
DW-1 came to know that the family members of the victim lodged
an ejahar against her husband. Both the said two boys introduced
themselves as AATSA members and demanded huge amount of
money from her husband. She further stated that after registration
of the case, police came to their house and took her husband to the
police station.

15) DW-2 Smti. Amiya Kalita deposed that she knew that some tea
garden organizations demanded money from the accused, but the
accused refused to pay the same.

16) During cross-examination, she stated that when the alleged
victim was staying in the house of the accused, she heard that
some organizations had demanded money from the accused. She
admitted during cross-examination that in course of the
investigation, when police visited the house of the accused, she did
not state before police about any demand for money by the
members of AATSA. That is not surprising because the Investigating
Officer admitted during cross-examination that he did not examine
any of the neighbours of the accused person.

17) The ejahar was lodged on 26-12-14, the police got the
prosecutrix examined under Section 164 CrPC only on 29-04-12,
leaving ample scope for tutoring and concoction. Although the
police seized the mobile phone of the accused which was allegedly
used to take naked photographs of the prosecutrix, the same was
not sent to FSL for forensic examination which is another lacuna in
the investigation. For the aforesaid reasons and unreliable nature of
the testimony of the prosecutrix which is contradicted by the
medical evidence and the inherent probabilities in the prosecution
version as discussed above, the charge against the accused does
not stand established and the point is answered accordingly.

18) Inthe result, | hold that the prosecution has failed to establish its
case beyond reasonable doubt and consequently, the accused
Page 8 of 9

person is acquitted of the offence under Section 4 PCSO Act and he
be set at liberty forthwith.
19) The bail bond shall remain in force for a further period of 6 (six)
months under Section 437-A CrPC.
Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 23 day
of June, 2016.

Sessions
Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
1. XXXX
List of Exhibits:
1. Ext. 1 Medical Report;
Ext. 2 Statement of the victim girl recorded under Section 164
CrPC;
Ext. 3 Ejahar;
Ext. 4 Sketch-Map;
Ext. 5 Seizure-List; and
Ext. 6 Charge-Sheet.
List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

N

a eo

Sessions
Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 9 of 9

Transcribed and typed by:-
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
