Page 1 of 22

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused
u/s 313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument
Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

49 OF 2018

(Under Section 4/17 of the POCSO Act
arising out of G.R. Case No. 3325 of
2017)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam
-“VSs-

1.Md. Mofijul Karim @ Rahul @
Babul

Son of Md. Jainal Abdin
Resident of Poromarighuli,
Police Station — Tezpur
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam and
2. Smti Karmila Munda,
W/O Sri Jowel Munda,
Resident of Borson Ghagra,
Police Station — Tezpur
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam.

10/01/2018 and 26/07/2018.
23/02/2018, 21/04/2018,
14/05/2018 & 11/07/2018,
20/08/2018.

20/08/2018

04/09/2017

Mr. M.Ch. Baruah,
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. Hemendra Borah, Advocate.

 
Page 2 of 22

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Md. Mafijul Karim @ Rahul @ Babul is put
for trial for allegation of charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012
and accused Smti Karmila Munda is put for trial for allegation of charge
u/s 109 of IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act.

Zz. The factual matrix according to the FIR, in brief, is that on or
about 10.30 a.m. of 25-08-2017 taking advantage of absence of any of
the family members, the informant’s 14 years old minor daughter
enticing by accused persons and took her to Ghogra. At Ghogra accused
hand over informant’s daughter to one Babul of Parua. The said Babul
kept confined for three days at a house somewhere in Paruwa and all
the three days he committed rape on her. On 27-08-2017 accused
dropped down informant’s daughter at Na-ali. Her daughter informed
the informant that accused committed rape on several times. Hence,
this prosecution case.

a. The informant Monoj Baghowar (Bhonda) filed this ejahar before
the I/C of Bebejia Police Out Post on 28-08-2017. On being receipt the
ejahar, I/C of Bebejia Police Out Post by giving GD Entry No. 612 dated
28-08-2017 at 3 p.m. started investigation of the case by sending the
original ejahar to O/C Tezpur Police station. On receipt the ejahar, the
O.C Tezpur P.S. registered the case vide Tezpur P.S. Case No. 1751/17
under Section 366(A)/343 of IPC read with section 8 of POCSO Act.
After completion of usual investigation, the O/C of Tezpur PS sent up
the case for trial against the accused Smti Karmila Munda and Md.
Mafijul Karim @ Rahul and Babul by filing charge sheet under Section
366(A)/343 of the IPC read with section 4 of the POCSO Act.

4. On being appeared the accused persons before this Court, after
hearing both parties, charged under section 4 of POCSO Act, 2012
against the accused. Mafijul Karim @ Rahul @ Babul and against
accused Smti Karmila Munda u/s 4 of POCSO Ac read with section 511
of the IPC. Thereafter, the charge was modified to against accused Smti
Karmila Munda u/s 109 of the IPC read with section 4 of POCSO Act and
thereafter, again the charge was modified u/s 17 of the POCSO Act.

 
Page 3 of 22

Details of the charge was read over to accused Karmila Munda, to which
she pleads not guilty and claimed to be tried. The particulars of the
charge against the accused accused Mofijul Karim @ Rahul @ Babul was
read over, explained to him, to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed
to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 8
(eight) numbers of witnesses.

6. After completion of prosecution evidence accused persons are
examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused
and evidence appears against the accused are put before them for
explanation where they denied the evidence and allegation and declined

to give defence evidence.

7. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels
of both sides.
8. The points for decision in this case are that:

1. Whether the accused Md. Mofijul Karim @ Rahul @ Babul on
25-08-2017 at about 3 p.m. and thereafter for about 3 days
at Poruwa, under Tezpur Police station, committed
penetrative sexual assault on Miss X (aged about 14 years.)?
and

2. Whether the accused Md. Mofijul Karim @ Rahul @ Babul on
25-08-2017 at about 3 p.m. and thereafter for about 3 days
at Poruwa, under Tezpur Police station, committed
penetrative sexual assault on Miss X (aged about 14 years.)
and that accused Smti Karmila Munda at the same place
abetted the said accused Mofijul Karim @ Rahul @ Babul, in
the commission of the said offence of penetrative sexual
assault to the victim which was committed in connection with
abetment and that you there committed the offence
punishable u/s 17 of POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.
9. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence
on record.

 
Page 4 of 22

10. PW- 1 Sri Monoj Baghowar stated that he knew the accused
Karmila Munda and Babul and the incident took place in the month of
August, 2017 at about 10.00 AM. At that time he along with his wife
went to work. Victim Miss X is his daughter and her age is 14 years at
the time of occurrence. At the relevant time she was alone in the house.
The accused Karmila Munda took his victim daughter to Ghagra taking
advantage of his absence. The accused Karmila Munda handed over his
victim daughter to the accused Babul and Babul took his daughter in a
bike to Parowa and forcefully confined her in his rented house for three
days. They searched their daughter vigorously for three days, but, could
not find her and after three days the accused Babul dropped her at Na-
ali. Then she returned back to their house. On being asked by her
mother, she reported that on long three days of confinement at the
rented house of Babul, she was being raped by the accused Babul.
Lateron, the victim also informed him about the incident. Then, he filed
an ejahar before Bebezia Out Post. Ext.1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is
his signature. Thereafter, police took his daughter for medical
examination and also sent her before the Court for recording her
statement under Section 164 CrPC.

In cross-examination, he admitted that victim studied at LP
School for about seven years which includes three years where she
failed. She was admitted at School while she was 61 years old. She
studied in Bahbari LP School which School is still existed. Thereafter she
was admitted at Omiyadas High School, Bandarmari. The said School is
still existed. At present, she studied at Class-VII Standard. She was
admitted in said School in Class -VI and completed two years in that
school. In LP School she has passed five classes. Ext.1 was written by a
police constable in the police station. The police constable was of the
Bebezia Police Out Post. The scribe writes the ejahar according to his
dictation. He himself and the victim went to Bebezia OP and thereafter
along with police he accompanied his victim daughter to the Court for

recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC. He never instructed

 
Page 5 of 22

victim daughter what to state before the learned Magistrate. However,

from house, he has accompanied his daughter to the Police Station.

11. PW-2 Sri Dhiraj Baghowar, has stated that he knew accused
Karmila Munda who belongs to their village. But, he knew the accused
Babul only after the incident. The incident took place about three
months ago. Victim is his sister. At the time of incident, her age was 14
years. She was studied in Class-VI at the time of occurrence. At first his
victim sister was taken by Karmila to Ghogra and Karmila handing over
his sister to other accused standing in the dock. He came to know about
the occurrence from his father when he reached home i.e. the next day
of recovery of his sister. The victim was recovered after three days of
her missing. After recovery, his victim sister informed him that she was

brought by accused Babul to his rented house at Parowa.

In cross-examination, he admitted that his victim sister did
not state anything about the occurrence to him. He reached Guwahati
from Bengalore on flight at about 7.00 AM on 28" day of the month, he
did not know the name of the month and thereafter he reached Tezpur
at about 8.30 AM on the said 28" day and the FIR was lodged after
arrival his home at Tezpur. There are about 25 houses near their house

who are neighbours and they are still alive.

12. PW-3 Sri Bandhana Orang who turned hostile. The unhostile
portion of evidence is such that he knew the victim who is her villager.
Accused Karmila Munda is also known to him, who is standing on the
dock. He did not know the other accused. He did not know anything
about the incident. He only heard that around 3 months back, the victim
was missing for about three days. He also heard that somebody has
dropped her at Na-ali after three days. Police did not record his

statement.

13. PW-4 Sri Lohit Rajwar stated that he knew the woman accused
Karmila Munda who belongs to Bahbari. He did not know the other

accused. He knew the victim girl. She was the daughter of Manoj

 
Page 6 of 22

Bagwar. Manoj Bagwar informed him that his daughter was taken by

some person.

14. PW- 5 victim Miss X stated that she knows both the accused.
Karmila Munda belongs to their village. The incident took place around
four months back. At about 10 a.m. Karmila Munda came to their house
and took her to Ghogra. At Ghogra, Karmila Munda handed over to
Babul who took her in a bike to Paruwa. Prior to the incident, she did
not know Babul. He kept her in a rented house at Paruwa. In the said
rented house, other than accused Babul and her, none was there. In the
said rented house Babul raped her in all three days. He opened her pant
and thereafter committed rape. In all the three days, during nights, in
such ways accused committed rape. In the day time, he confined her
inside the room by locking the door from outside. Thereafter, after
about few days, while accused went to take bath by keeping the mobile
phone in the room, she informed the matter to her brother Dhiraj
Bagwar about the whole incident. Then her brother Dhiraj called back
and scolded the accused stating that he will lodge a case against him for
this incident, then accused hired one auto asking the autowala to drop
her at Na-ali. Accordingly, she came to Na-ali and from Na-ali her
brother Dhiraj Bagwar took her to home. Then, her father had lodged
this case. Police examined her through the doctor and sent her for
recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. At the time of incident, she was
14 years old and reading in class VII. Ext. 2 is the statement before the
Magistrate and Ext. 2(1) and 2(2) are her signatures.

Though, she has been exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestion, but the evidence as to at about 10 a.m. Karmila
Munda came to their house and took her to Ghogra, at Ghogra, Karmila
Munda handed over to Babul who took her in a bike to Paruwa, prior to
the incident, she did not know Babul, accused kept her in a rented
house at Paruwa, in the said rented house, other than accused Babul
and her, none was there, there Babul raped her in all three days,

accused opened her pant and thereafter committed rape and during

 
Page 7 of 22

nights also in such ways accused committed rape on her has remained
unshaken.

15. PW-6 Sri Bipul Orang who turned hostile. The unhostile portion
of his evidence is that he knew both the accused present in the dock.
Woman accused is Kamila Munda and he did not know the name of
other accused. The victim girl is his niece. She was about 14 years at
the time of incident. The incident took place about 8 months ago. He
came to know that the victim is missing. Then their family members
vigorously searched her. Then he came to know that one Babul has
dropped the victim at Na-ali from his bike. While he enquired the matter
the victim told that accused Kamila Munda has kidnapped her.

Thereafter, one Babul has took her to somewhere.

16. PW- 7 Dr. Ila Rajkhowa, stated that she was posted as Sr
Medical and Health Officer at Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur. On that
day, in reference to Bebzia out post GD Entry No. 612 dated 28-08-2017
under section 366 -A of IPC, she had examined one patient (victim)
namely Miss X, 14 years, female D/O Sri Manoj Baghowar of vill- Niz-
Bahbari, PS- Tezpur on being escorted and identified by WHG Alaka
Deka. She had examined the victim on 28-08-2017 at 1.30 PM in the
emergency and labour room of the complex of the Kanaklata Civil
Hospital in presence of GNM Kamala Talukdar and found the following:

Consent for examination was taken from the victim girl as well
as her guardian.
Menstrual History:

Can not tell accurately the date of LMP. History given that she
has LMP on first week of August, 2017.
Identification Mark:

One big mole on lower region of lower lip.
On Examination:

Height : 140 cm, Weight : 35 kgs, Teeth : 5/5-6/7.

At the time of examination victim is average built, well dressed,
neat and tidy. Secondary sexual character are developed. Breast, areola

are developed. Axilary hair, pubic hairs are developed. Vulva, vagina are
Page 8 of 22

developed. There were no sign of any injury or violence in any part of
the body or in private parts. Vaginal smear was taken for spermatozoa.

Investigation advised and reports:
1. Vaginal smear for spermatozoa — not done by the party.

2. X-ray of left hand, wrist joint, elbow joint and iliac crest for
determination of age — union of the epiphysis of the lower ends of
radius and ulna are not yet completed. All epiphysis of the bones around
the elbow joint have fused. Epiphysis of the iliac crest has appeared but,
not fused.

Impression: Age of the person under investigation appears to be
below 18 years.( Done at Assam X-ray Clinic and Laboratory. Patients ID
No- AXC-216. Report given by Dr. PK Barman, Radiologist).

3. U/S for pelvis : Normal pelvic organs with non-gravid uterus. The
uterus is ante-verted and is of normal in size and outlines. Measures 6.0
x 2.7 x 2.6 cm in length breadth and thickness. Myometrium is normal
without any focal lesion. The endometrium is of normal thickness. There
is no gestational sac or product of conception is seen in the uterus. Both
overies are normal in size, and echoanatomy. Right ovary measures 20 x
19x 18 mm. Left ovary measure 16 x 15 x 11 mm. No evidence of nay
cystic or solid lesion is seen in the ovaries. No mass lesion is seen in the
pelvic/ parametrium. No abnormal fluid collections seen the peritonial
cavity and in the POD.

Impression: Normal pelvic organs with no gravid uterus. (Done at
Assam X-ray Clinic and Laboratory on 14-11-2016, Patients ID- AXC —
3084.

Report given by Dr. PK Barman, Radiologist and Ultrasonologist).

4. Urine for HCG — Negative (Done at Assam X-ray Clinic and
Laboratory. Patients ID No — 33157. Report given by Dr. D Mahanta,
Pathologist).

OPINION :

1. There is no sign of recent sexual intercourse at the time of
examination.
2. Age of the person under investigations appears to be below 18 years.

 
Page 9 of 22

3. There is no any sign of injury or violence on her body as well as on
her private parts at the time of examination.

Ext. 3 was the medical report and Ext. 3(1) to Ext. 3(5) were
Signatures. Ext. 4 was the urine for HCG report and Ext. 4(1) was the
signature of Pathologist Dr. D Mahanta. Ext. 5 was the U/S and X-ray
report with film and plates of Assam X-ray Clinic and Laboratory and

Ext. 5(1) was the signature of Dr. PK Barman, Radiologist.

17. PW 8 SI Lakhi Prasad Kachary, the Investigating Officer of this
case, stated that on 28-8-2017 he was posted as Incharge at Bebejia
Police Out Post under Tezpur PS. On that day, he received an ejahar
from one Monoj Baghowar (Dhunda) and he made GD Entry being No.
612 dated 28-08-2017 and forwarded to O/C Tezpur PS for registering a
case. He has already taken up the investigation of the case. Ext. 1(2) is
his signature on Ext.1, ejahar. He has recorded the statement of the
complainant and victim Miss X, 14 years, D/O Monoj Bagowar at the
police Out Post. Thereafter, he has sent the victim to KCH, Tezpur for
medical examination. He has visited the place of occurrence i.e. Nij
Bahbari, prepared the sketch map and recorded the statement of
witnesses. Ext. 6 is the sketch map and Ext. 6(1) is his signature. He
has arrested the accused person Karmila Munda and brought her to the
out post. On 29-08-2017 he has sent the victim girl to the learned
Magistrate for recording her 164 Cr.P.C. statement. Thereafter, he has
also arrested the accused Babul @ Mafijul. He has forwarded the
accused Karmila Munda and Babul @ Mafijul to the court. After
collecting medical report and on completion of usual investigation,
finding sufficient materials, he has submitted chargesheet against both
the accused persons u/s 366 A /343 of IPC read with section 4 of
POCSO Act. Ext. 7 is the chargesheet and Ext. 7(1) is his signature.

He confirmed the statement of witness Bipul Orang who stated
before him that "on being enquired the victim girl, she told me that
initially Kamila Munda kidnapped her, then Babul took her to somewhere

Where Babul raped her for 3 days.” Ext. 8 is the case diary of Tezpur

 
Page 10 of 22

PS Case No. 1751/17, Ext. 8(1) is the relevant portion of statement of
witness Bipul Orang and Ext. 8(2) is his signature.

In cross-examination he admitted that he has visited the place of
occurrence as shown by the complainant. Except Ext. 6, no place of
occurrence was shown to him by the complainant or victim. He has also
not trace out the exact place of occurrence as the victim did not exactly

specify him about the place of occurrence.

18. | These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence
plea is of total denial while their statements are recorded u/s 313
Cr.P.C.

19. I have heard the arguments put forwarded by learned counsel
for both the parties.

20. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly,
there are discrepancies in between the statement of victim and other
witnesses. There are many contradictions in between the ejahar,
statement of the victim made u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and the statement made
by victim before the court. Secondly, there is only one eye witness
i.e. the victim but her statement is not such to convict the accused
relying only on the evidence of victim. Thirdly, the place of occurrence
as stated in the ejahar is quite different from the place of occurrence as
stated by victim in the Court. Fourthly, though the doctor stated that
the victim was below 18 years but that is nothing but an opinion.
Therefore she may be more than 18 years. In the POCSO Act, the case
is depends upon the age of the victim as because the victim must below
18 years of age so there should be concrete proof the age of the victim
but here in this case prosecution has failed to prove except the age of
the victim. Under such circumstances, the accused is entitled to get

acquittal.

21. On the other hand, learned Special Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur,
Tezpur submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond

any reasonable doubt, as such accused persons are required to be

 
Page 11 of 22

convicted under the charged section of law. Firstly, the victim vividly
described the whole story not only before the court but also the
statement made before the learned Magistrate as well as statement
made before the Investigating Officer u/s 161 Cr.P.C. as such, her
evidence is cogent, reliable, corroborative and convincing. Besides, the
statement of other witnesses including PW 1 and 2 all were supported
the evidence of victim. Secondly, though the doctor found no any sign
of sexual intercourse on 28-08-2017 but the incident took place on 25-
08-2017, therefore, she was examined after 3 days which is not possible
to remain any sign of sexual intercourse. Besides, there is no question
of reveal any spermatozoa when she was examined after 3 days of the
incident. Thirdly, under section 29 of the POCSO Act, there is a provision
of mandatory presumption where the person is prosecuted for
committing, abetting or attempt to commit any offence u/s 3, 5 and 7.
Over and above, the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond any
reasonable doubt against both the accused as to their respective charge

SO may be required to convict.

22. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by the learned
counsels of both the parties, I am going to dispose of the case as

follows.

23. A close scrutiny of the record, it appears that to substantiate the
case, the prosecution examined as many as 8 numbers of witnesses.
Out of 8 numbers of witnesses, two i.e. PW 7 - the doctor and PW 8 -
the Investigating Officer are official witnesses and therefore there
remained 6 numbers of non official witnesses. Among the 6 numbers of
non official witnesses, 2 numbers of witnesses are declared hostile. The
Investigaging Officer has confirmed the hostile portion of statement of

witness Bipul Orang.

Here in the present case as details discussed herein before, the
victim PW 5 stated that at about 10 a.m. accused Karmila Munda came
to their house and took her to Ghogra. At Ghogra, Karmila Munda

handed over to Babul who took her in a bike to Paruwa. Prior to the

 
Page 12 of 22

incident, she did not know Babul. He kept her in a rented house at
Paruwa. In the said rented house, other than accused Babul and her,
none was there. In the said rented house Babul raped her in all three
days. He opened her pant and thereafter committed rape. In all the
three days, during nights, in such ways accused committed rape. In the
day time, he confined her inside the room by locking the door from
outside. Thereafter, after about few days, while accused went to take
bath by keeping the mobile phone in the room, she informed the matter
to her brother Dhiraj Bagwar about the whole incident. Then her brother
Dhiraj called back and scolded the accused stating that he will lodge a
case against him for this incident, then accused hired one auto asking
the autowala to drop her at Na-ali. Accordingly, she came to Na-ali and
from Na-ali her brother Dhiraj Bagwar took her to home. Then, her
father had lodged this case. Though she has been exposed to long
cross-examination, the evidence as to made in examination-in-chief

could not be shaken by any means except giving suggestions.

The statements made by victim before the Investigating Officer
as well as before the learned Magistrate are also corroborated. No
doubt, there is a minor discrepancy in between the statement made by
victim before the court and statement made before the learned
Magistrate. As it appears that the statement made by the victim before
this court that “accused confined her in his rented house at Paruwa for
about 3 days.” But in her statement made before the learned
magistrate, she stated that “accused raped her on the said two nights.”
Other than that the whole statements are corroborated to each other.

This is the statement which is slightly minor contradictions.

In Boya Ganganna Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh reported
in AIR 1976 SC 1541 wherein it is held —

“Minor contradictions are bound to appear when ignorant and
illiterate women are giving evidence. Even in case of trained and
educated persons, memory sometimes plays false and this would be

much more so in case of ignorant and rustic women. It must also be

 
Page 13 of 22

remembered that the evidence given a witness would very much depend
upon his power of observation and it is possible that some aspects of an
incident may be observed by one witness while they may not be

witnessed by another though both are present at the scene of offence.”

As stated above as raised by learned counsel for the accused,
there is minor contradictions. Even if admitted the said slightly

contradictions, the prosecution case would not change.

24. — Learned counsel for the accused again submitted that there is no
any birth certificate or age certificate or any certificate issued by the
School authority where the victim first or last attended or any certificate
issued by local authority. Here in the present case as stated herein
before, according to the FIR, the victim at the relevant time was 14
years of age. PW 1, the informant, stated in the court that the victim
was 14 years at the time of occurrence. Similarly, the brother of the
victim, PW 2 also stated that at the relevant time the age of the victim
was 14 years. On the date of recording the statement of victim, she
stated that she was 14 years of age. Similarly, on the day of recording
her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. she stated before the learned Magistrate
that she was 14 years of age. The doctor PW 7 also stated that the age
of the person under investigation appears to be below 18 years,
therefore, over and above, it can be safely held that the victim was a
minor at the time of occurrence. Except submitting at the time of
argument, defence has not challenged at any point of time about the

age of the victim.

25. Inthe case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs — State, represented
by the Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal (MD) No.98 of 2015, it
was held that it is true that primary evidence to prove the date of birth
of the individual may be preferably the birth certificate. But, it cannot be
said that in absence of birth certificate, the date of birth cannot be
proved. When the age of the individual is not disputed, the question of
proving the same does not arise at all. It is the settled law that a fact in

issue or any relevant fact or any fact relevant to the issue, which is

 
Page 14 of 22

disputed by the adverse party alone, needs proof. If it is not disputed,
there is no need to lead any evidence in proof of the said admitted fact.
In this case, the victim and her father and brother categorically
stated the age of the victim as 14 years from the very beginning of the
case, at the time of commission of offence, besides during cross-
examination, the same has not been disputed at all by the accused side.
Thus, the evidence of PWs in respect of age of the victim remains
unchallenged.
26. A careful perusal of the whole case record, it appears that the
statement of the victim made before the court is corroborated by her
earlier statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. and 164 Cr.P.C. Though she has been
exposed to long cross-examination the evidence as to on the day of
incident at about 10 a.m. accused Karmila Munda came to their house,
took her to Ghogra, at Ghogra she was handed over to one Babul, said
Babul kept her in a rented house at Parua for three days and all the
days accused Babul raped her by opening her pant, even in all the
nights during her confinement, accused committed rape has remained
unshaken. Besides, according to her statement one day during her
confinement at Parua accused went to take bath by keeping the mobile
in the room, she informed the matter to her brother Dhiraj Bagwar
about the whole incident. Then her brother Dhiraj called back and
scolded the accused stating that he will lodge a case against him for this
incident, then accused hired one auto asking the autowala to drop her
at Na-ali and from Na-ali she was taken back by her brother Dhiraj
Bagwar. In court PW 2 Dhiraj Bagwar stated about the whole incident in
toto. Thereafter, the PW1, the father of the victim stated that on being
came to know about the incident, filed ejahar before the police station.
The other independent witness PW 4 also supported the prosecution
case.
27. It has already stated that out of 6 numbers of non official
witnesses, 2 of them i.e. PW 3 and PW 6 are turned hostile. The I.O.
has confirmed the hostile portion of statement of PW 6 that at the time

of recording the statement of Bipul Orang he stated before him that “on

 
Page 15 of 22

being enquired the victim girl, she told him that initially Karmila Munda
kidnapped her, then Babul took her to somewhere, then Babul raped her
for 3 days.” Besides that, that hostile portion of statement are
corroborated the statement of victim, PW 1, informant and PW 2, the
brother of the victim.

28. In the case in hand, the victim has been consistent on the
material particulars with regard to the incident that on the day of
incident at about 10 a.m. Karmila Munda came to the house of the
victim, took the victim to Ghogra, at Ghogra handed over the victim to
accused Babul and accused took the victim to a rented house of Parua
where accused confined her (victim) for about 3 days and all the 3 days
accused committed rape on her. Besides that there is no any evidence
that accused persons have some enmity or quarrel with the victim or
with the father or any family members of the victim to implicate the
accused persons falsely. Though at the time of recording the statement
of the accused persons, they stated that the complainant has filed this
false case as they have a marked named “Mina bazaar” where Karmila
and mother of the victim doing works. Accused Mafijul is the owner of
the said “Mina bazaar”. The mother of the victim asked Mofijul Rs.
20,000/-. During that time Karmila Munda told her that why Mofijul give
her money. For this reason a quarrel took place and complainant has
filed this false case against the accused persons. But this is a new plea
taken by accused persons only at the time of recording their statements
u/s 313 Cr.P.C. It appears that none of the prosecution witnesses has
been cross-examined nor even any suggestion has been made to any of
the prosecution witnesses that the accused Mofijul Karim is the owner of
“Mina Bazaar” where other accused Karmila and mother of victim were
doing works and the mother of the victim asked him to give Rs.
20,000/- and during that time Karmila Munda told her that why Mofijul
give her money and for this reason a quarrel took place between
Karmila and complainant for which the complainant filed this false case
against them. Accused Mofijul Karim @ Babul @ Rahul has also failed to

adduce any defence evidence to substantiate his claim. Under such

 
Page 16 of 22

circumstances, his statement cannot be relied on. Therefore, the
evidence of victim is cogent and reliable and there cannot be any doubt
to disbelieve the evidence of the victim.

29. Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of
accused is not leading any defence evidence would not have mattered
much as prosecution is supposed to prove its case beyond shadows of
all reasonable doubts. However, in a case under POCSO Act, the
situation is not so. In this regard, it will be worthwhile to refer to the
provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

30.  U/s. 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for certain
offence is to be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for certain
offences and same reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is

prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any
offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and
Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person
has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the
case may be, unless the contrary is proved.
31. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special
Court shall draw a presumption of the existence of culpable mental state
of the accused where culpable mental state is required on the part of
the accused. Section 30 reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any
prosecution for any offence under this Act which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall presume
that existence of such mental state but it shall be a defence for the
accused to prove the fact that he had no such mental state with respect
to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be proved
only when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt
and not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of

probabilities.

 
Page 17 of 22

32. The use of expression “shall presume” has been defined in
Section 4 of the Indian Evidence Act. As contrasted from the expression
“if presume”, the expression “shall presume” whenever used connotes
“legal presumption” or “compulsory presumption” as contrasted from
“factual presumption” or “discretionary presumption” emanating from
the expression “may presume”. “Legal presumptions” or “compulsory
presumption” as are signified by the use of expression “shall presume”
are inferences or proposition established by law, which the law
peremptorily requires to be made whenever the facts appear which it
assumes as the basis of that inference. The presumptions of law are in
reality rules of law, and part of the law itself and the court may draw
inference whenever the requisite facts are developed in pleadings.
33. Similarly whenever any law prescribes that the Court shall
presume the existence of culpable mandatory state or to draw a
presumption regarding commission of any offence, unless the contrary is
proved, the onus to prove the contrary undoubtedly shifts upon the
accused. Certainly, it does not discharge the prosecution of its duty to
first establish and prove the facts, the existence of which can only lead
to drawing of any such compulsory presumption or legal presumption by
the use of the expression “shall presume”. Thus, as per Section 29, if a
person is prosecuted for committing or abating or attempting to commit
any offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and 9 of POCSO Act, the Special Court shall
presume that such person has committed or abated or attempted to
commit the said offence as the case may be unless the contrary is
proved. However, in the present case, the accused has completely failed
in discharging his burden even by preponderance of probabilities much
less beyond reasonable doubt.
34. Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be
recorded on the sole testimony of a child witness or not? This issue was
dealt by the Hon'ble Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of U.P.,
(2008) 16 SCC, which are reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as a

determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On the

 
Page 18 of 22

contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who may
testify — all persons shall be competent to testify unless the Court
considers that they are prevented from understanding the questions put
to them, or from giving rational answers to those questions, by tender
years, extreme old age, disease, whether of body or mind, or any other
cause of the same kind.”
35. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare — Vs — State of Maharashtra,
(1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held that a child witness if found competent
to depose to the facts and reliable one such evidence could be the basis
of conviction. In other words, even in the absence of oath the evidence
of a child witness can be considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act
provided that such witness is able to understand the questions and able
to give rational answer thereof. The evidence of a child witness and
credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of each case.
The only precaution which the Court should bear in mind while
assessing the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a
reliable one and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent
witness and there is no likelihood of being tutored.
36. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs —
State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the decision on
the question whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence
primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices his manners, his
apparent possessions or lack of intelligence, and the said Judge may
resort to any examination which will tend to disclose his capacity and
intelligence as well as his understanding of the obligation of an oath.
Coming to the present case, as discussed herein above, the
victim made stated on oath after putting many questions, she replied
the same without any hesitation and this court hold that the victim was
able to administer oath and thereafter, her statement was recorded on
oath. Apart from that PW 1 and 2 clearly supported the evidence of
victim (PW 5). The prosecution has ably proved the age of the victim as

discussed herein before.

 
Page 19 of 22

On appreciation of evidence given by the victim, her father
informant PW 1 and her brother PW 2 and other independent witnesses,
I find that accused Mofijul Karim sexually assaulted the victim. It
appears that medical evidence no way supported the materials of
penetrative sexual assault as the doctor stated that (1) no sign of recent
sexual intercourse at the time of examination and (2) there is no any
sign of injury or violence on her body as well as on her private parts at
the time of examination.

Here in the present case, the victim is a minor however
according to the doctor she was below 18 years of age.

From the aforesaid discussions, it appears that the prosecution
has ably proved the case beyond any reasonable doubt against accused
Smti Karmila Munda that she has abetted the other accused Md. Mofijul
Karim @ Rahul @ Babul in commission of the sexual assault on victim.
Therefore, accused Smti Karmila Munda is held guilty for the offence u/s
17 of the POCSO Act.

The prosecution has also able to prove that accused Md. Mofijul
Karim @ Rahul @ Babul at the relevant time committed the offence of
sexual assault to the victim and therefore he is also held guilty for the
offence u/s 8 of the POCSO Act.

37. |The accused persons are heard on the point of sentence where
they praying for leniency stating that they are the only bread earners of
their respective families. Besides they have been in custody for long
time, hence praying for leniency.

38. I have heard learned counsel for the accused persons as well as
learned Special Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur.

39. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that
while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court
should strike a balance between aggravating circumstances and
mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to the
crime and mitigating circumstances relate to the criminal. In this case,
so far as the aggravating circumstances are concerned, a minor girl was

sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not only to the body

 
Page 20 of 22

but also to the mind of not only to the victim but that of entire family
members, but considering the mitigating circumstances, the accused
Md. Mofijul Karim @ Rahul @ Babul was hardly 22 years of age and
accused Smti Karmila Munda was hardly about 30 years at the time of
the incident. It is not brought to the notice of this Court that before this
incident, the accused persons had committed any other offence. There
is likelihood of their reformation, but the statute u/s. 8 of POCSO Act
prescribes minimum punishment for a term of three years with fine and
for abetment of the aforesaid offence is also the same punishment as to
the offence abetted. When the intention of the legislator is to impose
stringent punishment for not less than three years, this court has no
option but to impose minimum punishment of three years.
ORDER

40. I convict the accused Smti Karmila Munda u/s. 17 of POCSO Act
and sentence her to Rigorous Imprisonment for 3 (three) years and also
to pay a fine of Rs.500/- (Rupees Five Hundred only), in default,
Rigorous Imprisonment for one month.

I also convict the accused Md. Mofijul Karim @ Rahul @ Babul
u/s 8 of POCSO Act and sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 3
(three) years and also to pay a fine of Rs.500/- (Rupees Five Hundred
only), in default, Rigorous Imprisonment for one month.

The period, which they detained in custody, during the period of
investigation, trial etc. shall be set off u/s 428 of Cr.P.C.
41. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through the statement
of witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the compensation. To
mitigating the mental agony and trauma suffered by the victim, an
amount of Rs.25,000/- (Rupees Twenty five thousand) only is awarded
as compensation.

The Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur
be asked to give the compensation to the father of the victim after

proper enquiry.

 
Page 21 of 22

Let a copy of the Judgment be sent to the Secretary, District

Legal Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur for her necessary action.

42. A copy of this judgment be furnished to the accused persons

each free of cost immediately.

Let another copy of Judgment be sent to learned District

Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur, u/s 365 of Cr.P.C.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 4 day
of September, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
go I oe

Page 22 of 22

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1 =
Prosecution Witness No.2 =
Prosecution Witness No.3 :-
Prosecution Witness No.4 =
Prosecution Witness No.5 =
Prosecution Witness No.6 :-
Prosecution Witness No.7 =
Prosecution Witness No.8 i-

Exhibit 1 ae

Ext. 1(1) -
Exhibit 2 he
Exhibit 2(1) & 2(2) =
Exhibit 3,4 & 5 -
Exhibit 3(1) to 3(5) —:-
Exhibit 4(1) =
Exhibit 5(1) »
Exhibit 6 =
Exhibit 7 he
Exhibit 8 =

Exhibit 8(1) =
Orang.

Exhibit 6(1),7(1) & 8(2):-

Sri Monoj Baghowar, informant

Sri Dhiraj Bghowar

Sri Bandhana Orang

Sri Lohit Rajowar

Victim Miss X

Sri Bipul Orang

Dr. Ila Rajkhowa, M.O.

Sri Lakhi Prasad Kachary, 1.0.
EXHIBITS.

Ejahar

Signature of the informant
164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.
Signatures of the victim.
Medical reports

Signatures of M.O.
Signature of Dr. D. Mahanta,Pathologist.
Signautre of Dr. P.K. Barman,Radiologist
sketch map
Chargesheet
Case diary of Tezpur PS Case No.1751/17

Relevant portion of statement of Bipul

Signatures of I.O. Lakhi Prasad Kachary.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR

 
