IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE:::::::: BILASIPARA

Present:- Shri J. Borah, A.J.S
Special Judge,

Bilasipara
Special (POCSO) Case No- 11 of 2018
u/s 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act
State of Assam
-Vs-
Rofiqul Islam
sania accused person

Date of framing charge i 29-11-2018

Date of recording evidence _ :- 10-01-2019
01-03-2019
29-03-2019
03-05-2019
24-05-2019
25-06-2019

Date of Argument 05-07-2019

Date of Judgment ‘ 05-07-2019

Advocates Appeared:

For the State of Assam :- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Ld. Addl. P.P

for the State of Assam

For the defence Mr. Shanti Uddin Seikh,

Ld. Advocate for the accused.
JUDGMENT

1. This case is u/s 6 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act,

Contd. to page no.-2
[2]

in short POCSO Act. So, the name of the victim is not mentioned here and
she is referred to, hereinafter, as ‘x’.
2. The prosecution case, in brief, is that ‘x’, the informant lodged an
ejahar with the Bilasipara police station on 10-09-2018 informing that she
had love affair with the accused Rofiqul Islam. The accused Rofiqul Islam
assured her to marry. With such promise to marry, he induced her to do
sexual act with him. Accused had done voluptuous act with her many times.
On 08-09-2018 at about 01.30 P.M, the accused Rofiqul Islam took her to
‘dhoonsa’ field and committed sexual intercourse with her. The informant’s
mother Bahaton Nessa saw the occurrence.

So, the informant prayed for taking necessary action against the
accused Rofiqul Islam.
3. The Bilasipara police station received the ejahar and registered as
Bilasipara police station case no. 1114/18 u/s 376 Indian Penal Code, in
short I.P.C r/w section 6 of POCSO Act. The case was investigated and
having found prima facie u/s 376 I.P.C and section 6 of POCSO Act against
the accused Rofiqul Islam, prepared the chargesheet and laid the same
before the court for trial.
4. The accused Rofiqul Islam, hereinafter called the accused, appeared
in this court and he was furnished copy. Charge was framed u/s 6 of POCSO
Act against the accused. The charge was read over and explained to the
accused to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
5. The prosecution, in order to bring home the charge against the

accused, examined 10 (ten) witnesses, namely-

1. ‘x’/ the victim PW-1
2. Hazarat Ali Choudhury PW-2
3. Sadakkas Ali PW-3
4. Bahaton Nessa PW-4
5. Abdul Mannan Miah P.W-5
6. Dr. Aruna Saikia P.W-6
7. Jerina Khatun P.W-7
8. Sorbesh Ali P.W-8
9. Dr. Laskar Ali P.W-9
10. Ashis Kr. Sengupta P.W-10

Contd. to page no.-3
[3]

6. The accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C and his statement was
recorded where he denied all allegations leveled against him in the evidence

adduced by the prosecution witnesses and also declined to adduce evidence

in defence.
i Heard argument for both sides.
8. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION

i. Whether accused since 3 (three) months prior to lodging of ejahar
on several occasions and on 08-09-18 at about 01.30 P.M at
different places committed penetrative sexual assault on ‘x’, aged
about 16 years old repeatedly?

DECISION AND REASONS THERE OF

9. Since P.W-1 ‘x’ is the informant as well as alleged victim, so, she is
the prime witness in this case. Now, let’s see the evidence of this witness at
first.

10. P.W-1 ‘x’ has stated in her evidence that she is the informant in this
case. The accused hails from her village. She had love affair with the
accused. One day when she was standing behind their house, the accused
went there, took her inside the compound to their house and committed
sexual intercourse with her. Another day, when she was going to tuition, the
accused took her to a field where he committed sexual intercourse on her.
Another day the accused took her to a ‘dhoonsa’ field where the accused
committed sexual intercourse on her. The said occurrence was behold by her
mother. Accordingly, she lodged the ejahar Ext-1 against the accused, Ext-
1(1) is her signature. She also gave her statement before the Magistrate.

In her cross P.W-1 has stated that the accused had committed sexual
intercourse on her in the compound, jute field and ‘dhoonsa’ field. She did
not lodge separate ejahar for separate occurrence. She lodged this case
against the accused as he did not marry her. At the time of committing
sexual intercourse on her by the accused in the field of ‘dhoonsa’, she raised
hue and cry but the same was not audible to her mother. But her mother
saw her when the accused was taking her to ‘dhoonsa’ field.

11. Thus, meticulous scrutiny of evidence of P.W-1 ‘x’ shows that she
had love affair with the accused. According to P.W-1 ‘x’, the accused had
committed sexual intercourse on her three times. First in their household

compound, second time in the jute field and in the third time in the

Contd. to page no.-4
[4]

‘dhoonsa’ field. The said sexual intercourses were committed on ‘x’ on
different days. According to P.W-1, she did not disclose to her parents’ or
others about such incident of committing rape on her. According to P.W-1,
her mother saw the third occurrence. Accordingly, she lodged the ejahar
against the accused.

If it is accepted that the accused had committed sexual intercourse
on her three times and on several occasions and in the different places.
Then question arises, whether ‘x’ was a consenting party to sexual acts by
the accused.

P.W-1 has specifically stated in her evidence that she had love affair
with the accused. Secondly, P.W-1 has stated that she did not divulge to
anyone about the sexual intercourse on her committed by the accused.
Thirdly, since her mother saw the third occurrence, so she lodged the ejahar
against the accused. Another aspect is that according to P.W-1, the accused
took her behind their house. The accused took her to jute field and the
accused also took her to ‘dhoonsa’ field to commit sexual intercourse on her.
The ‘dhoonsa’ field is 1 k.m away from their house. ‘x’ did not resist the
accused while taking her to such places. If it is so, then it is clear that she
voluntarily accompanied the accused to such places.

All these shows that ‘x’ was a consenting party for sexual act on her
by the accused.

Now, question arises whether such consent was free from
inducement, compulsion or anything else under such circumstances she had
to surrender before the accused.

P.W-1 has mere stated that she had love affair with the accused.
Except this no evidence adduced by the P.W-1 that she was induced, forced
or compelled by the accused for such act. So, her consent was free.

Now, question is whether ‘x’ was minor i.e below 18 (eighteen) years
old at the time of occurrence.

P.W-1 ‘x’ has stated nothing regarding her age at the time of
occurrence. P.W-1 ‘x’ has also not exhibited any document to establish that
she was a minor.

12. Now, let’s see the evidence of P.W-6 Dr. Aruna Saikia, Medical &

Health Officer and P.W-9 Dr. Laskar Ali, another Medical & Health Officer.

Contd. to page no.-5
[5]

P.W-6 has stated in her evidence that she had medically examined ‘x’
and found as follows-

Height-5 ft. 5 inch; weight- 34 kg; chest girth- 28 inch; abdomen
girth-22 inch; total number of teeth- 28; scalp heirs- present; axillary hairs-
present; pubic hairs- present; breast- well developed; genital examination-
normal; evidence of injury on her body or private parts- no; no spermatozoa
seen in the smear supplied. According to her opinion- no evidence of recent
sexual intercourse/assault found on the patient and approximate radiological
age of the patient is 17-18 years. Ext-2 is the medical report.

P.W-9 Dr. Laskar Ali has stated in his evidence that he had examined
‘x’ radiologically to determine the age of ‘x’. He did there x rays and found as
follows-

Left wrist joint- lower epiphysis of radius is fused. Age is more than
16.5 years; lower epiphysis of ulna is ulna is fused. Age is equal or more
than 17 years; left elbow joint- radial head epiphysis is fused. Age is more
than 14 years; left iliac crest- iliac crest epiphysis is partially fused.
Approximate age is 17 to 18 years. Final opinion- Approximate radiological
age is 17 to 18 years. Ext-3 is the medical report.

Thus, the evidence of P.W-6 and P.W-9 shows that the approximate
radiological age is between 17 to 18 years. The law is that the age may be
either one year less or 1 year greater. As per evidence of P.W-6, the
approximate age is 17 to 18 years. So, it be either seventeen or above
eighteen. The principle is that if there found two views, it goes in favour of
the accused.

The Hon’ble Apex Court in Sharad Birdhichand Sarda -vs- State of
Maharashtra (1984) AIR (SC) 1622 observe as follows-

"LOD. seeccessssecssnsssssesnsssessensesnasess Another golden thread which runs
through the web of the administration of justice in criminal cases is that if
two views are possible on the evidence adduced in the case, one pointing to
the guilt of the accused and the other to his innocence, the view which Is
favourable to the accused should be adopted. This principle has a special
relevance in cases where in the guilt of the accused is sought to be
established by circumstantial evidence.”

Hon’ble Gauhati High Court in Ranjit Kalita Vs. State of Assam
2017(5) GL) 394 observed as follows-

“LO... The doctor who has been examined as PW-6 stated that on

Contd. to page no.-6
[6]

the basis of the physical, Radiological and Laboratory investigation he found
her to be above 15 years and below 16 years. Though the defence to put
any question to him regarding the margin of error while determining the age
on the basis of radiological examination but law is well settled that the
margin of error is always 2/3 years on either side and if the age of the
doctor mentioned in his report as above 15 years is accepted then with
addition 2/3 years she would be a major...............0068

P.W-10 Ashis Kr. Sen Gupta, the investigating officer, seized one
school certificate, M.Ext-1. This M.Ext-1 is a school certificate, given by 2197
Baghmara L.P School. This school certificate is not duly proved by the
prosecution. There is no evidence adduced by the P.W-1 ‘x’, the informant,
P.W-4 Bahaton Nessa, the mother of P.W-1 ‘x’ and P.W-8 Sarbesh Ali that ‘x’
was student of Baghmara L.P School and she heard in the said school.

So, the M. Ext-1 cannot be accepted to be authentic one. In the
result it leads to conclusion that ‘x’ is of 18 years or above 18 years.

13. When a girl of eighteen or above eighteen years, does anything prior
to her own consent, then her consent is considered and it is accepted.

The earlier discussion shows that ‘x’ went with the accused to
different places voluntarily and she kept mum when the accused committed
sexual intercourse on her, all this shows that she is consenting party.

14. Another vital point is that P.W-1 ‘x’ has strenuously stated in her
cross examination that as the accused did not marry her, so, she lodged the
case against the accused. The evidence of P.W-1 ‘x’ is clear rather fainted.
15. Now, let us see the evidence of other witnesses.

P.W-2 Hazarat Ali in his evidence stated that he did not see the
occurrence. He got to know from ‘x’ that she was committed rape by the
accused. Since the evidence of P.W-1 itself is not reliable to take into
consideration that the accused committed rape on her. So, the evidence of
P.W-2 that he got to know about the occurrence from P.W-1 cannot be
accepted.

16. Same is the evidence of P.W-3 Sadakkas Ali who got to know about
the occurrence from ‘x’. So, the evidence of P.W-3 cannot be accepted.

17. P.W-4 Bahaton Nessa is the mother of the alleged victim ‘x’.
According to P.W-4 she was working at the house of Nishan Ali. She heard a

cry of her daughter from ‘dhoonsa’ field. She went there and found the

Contd. to page no.-7
[7]

accused above her daughter and the accused was committing sexual
intercourse on ‘x’. She tried to catch the accused, but failed to do so.

In her cross P.W-4 has stated that the distance between the place of

occurrence and the place where she was working is 4/5 bigha of land and it
take 30 minutes to reach the place of occurrence. One Moinuddin, aged
about 12 years was with ‘x’ when ‘x’ went to tethering the goat.
18. Thus, scrutiny of evidence of P.W-4 Bahaton Nessa shows that while
she was working at the house of Nishan, she heard the cry of her daughter
‘x’. The distance between the place of working at the house of Nishan and
the field of ‘dhoonsa’ is 4/5 bigha of land. According to P.W-4 it took 30
minutes time to reach the ‘dhoonsa’ field from the hosue of Nishan. 4/5
bigha of land is not a little distance. It is something difficult to hear a sound
from such distance. So, the evidence of P.W-4 cannot be accepted easily.

Another aspect is that according to P.W-4 one boy named Moinuddin
saw ‘x’ when she was taken to ‘dhoonsa’ field. Moinuddin is of 12 years old.
So, he is a competent witness. But the prosecution did not examine
Moinuddin. So, it is a vital lapse on the part of the prosecution.

Another aspect is that the defence has suggested to P.W-4 that she
wanted marriage of her daughter with the accused, but the accused refused
it. This suggestion was denied by P.W-4. But P.W-1 ‘x’ has specifically stated
in her evidence in cross that she lodged the case against the accused, as he
did not marry her. In such a situation, the suggestion raised by the defence
cannot be discarded.

19. P.W-5 Abdul Mannan Miah has stated in his evidence that he got to
know about the occurrence from P.W-4 Bahaton Nessa. Since the evidence
of P.W-4 is itself not trustworthy. So, the evidence of P.W-5 cannot be
accepted to be reliable.

20. P.W-7 Jerina Khatun has stated in her evidence that on the day of
occurrence, Bahaton Nessa worked at her house. When Bahaton Nessa went
to ‘dhoonsa’ field, she accompanied her. She saw ‘x’ lying in the ‘dhoonsa’
field and the accused was running away from ‘dhoonsa’ field.

There found corroboration in the evidence of P.W-4 Bahaton Nessa
and the evidence of P.W-7 Jerina Khatun in respect that both of them went
to ‘dhoonsa’ field together. But at the same time, there found gulf in their

evidence in respect that when P.W-4 has stated in her evidence that she saw

Contd. to page no.-8
[8]

the accused above ‘x’ and committing rape, P.W-7 has stated that she saw
‘x’ lying on the field and the accused was running away from ‘dhoonsa’ field.
So, there is distinct gulf in the evidence of P.W-4 and P.W-7. This non-
corroborated evidence may affect the prosecution case.

21. P.W-8 Sarbesh Ali is the father of ‘x’. He has stated in his evidence
that he saw the accused to come out from the ‘dhoonsa’ field and when he
went to the place of occurrence, his daughter told him that the accused
committed rape on her.

In his cross P.W-8 has stated that the ‘dhoonsa field’ is 4/5 ‘rachi’
(one ‘rachi’ is equal to 80 hand) from his house.

Thus the evidence of P.W-8 that he saw the accused to come out
from ‘dhoonsa’ field from a distance 4/5 ‘rachi’ is not reliable and convincing.
Since, the evidence of P.W-1 ‘x’ itself is not reliable. So, the evidence of P.W-
8 who got to know about the occurrence from P.W-1 ‘x’ cannot be accepted.
22. The evidence of PW-10 Ashis Kr. Sengupta, the investigating officer is
mere official. He investigated the case and prepared the charge sheet Ext-5.
The evidence of P.W-10 does not meliorate the prosecution case.

23. Considering all aspects, it leads to conclusion that the prosecution
evidence is not sufficient and reliable to prove the offences as alleged
against the accused. The prosecution evidence is found dearth of merit.

24. The prosecution, thereby, failed to prove its case u/s 6 POCSO Act
against the accused beyond all reasonable doubt.

25. Held, the accused is not guilty u/s 6 POCSO Act.

26. Accordingly, the accused is acquitted and set at liberty.

The bail bond of accused stands cancelled and bailor is discharged
from liabilities.

The case is disposed of.

Given under my hand and seal by this court on this 05" day of July
2019 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Transcribed & typed by,
S. Brahma, Stenographer Gr. ITI.

Contd. to page no.-9
[9]

APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-
PW-1 ‘x’/ the victim
PW-2 Hazarat Ali Choudhury
PW-3 Sadakkas Ali
PW-4 Bahaton Nessa
P.W-5 Abdul Mannan Miah
P.W-6 Dr. Aruna Saikia
P.W-7 Jerina Khatun
P.W-8 Sorbesh Ali
P.W-9 Dr. Laskar Ali
P.W-10 Ashis Kr. Sengupta

PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-
Ext-1 Ejahar,
Ext-2 Medical Examination report,
Ext-3 Radiological report,
Ext-4 Sketch Map,
Ext-4 Charge sheet and

Ext-5 Seizure list.

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT WITNESS fs NIL
COURT EXHIBITS * NIL

(Shri J. Borah)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
