HEADING OF JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE
IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE BILASIPARA

Present:- Smti S. Bhuyan, AJS
Special Judge, Bilasipara
Special Case No- 07 of 2017

u/s 366(A) and 4 of POCSO Act

STATE
Versus
Sajmal Ali Sk. @ Masmal Ali
Accused person

(Corresponding to GR case No- 361/14 u/s 366(A) I.P.C r/w section 4 of

POCSO Act)
Advocate appeared: -
For the state:- Mr. T. Kr. Bhattacharya, Special P.P.
For the accused:- Mr. Shanti Uddin Sk., Advocate.
Date of institution of the case :- 09-05-14
Date of Framing charge :-10-11-17
Date of prosecution evidence :- 23-02-18, 03-08-18, 01-09-18

Statement of accused recorded on _ :- 08-10-18
Date of Argument :- 29-10-18, 31-10-18

Judgment delivered :- 12-11-18
2|Page
JUDGMENT
Prosecution Case

1. Prosecution case as reveal from Ext-2 ejahar is that accused Sajmal
Ali Sk being relative of informant, on 20-10-13 taken informant’s daughter
Miss X to his house in order to visit his house as guest and there accused
Sajmal Ali Sk committed forceful sexual intercourse with Miss X for several
times but Miss X out of fear, did not disclose the incident to her parents.
Thereafter, after passing of 8 month of rape incident, seeing physical
appearance of Miss X, informant asked to Miss X and incident of forceful
sexual intercourse came into light. After coming to know about the incident,
when informant asked to accused Sajmal Ali Sk, then other accused persons
named in the ejahar forced Miss X to abort the child but Miss X did not abort.
As Miss X did not abort the child, on 04-05-14 at about 05.00 pm all the
accused persons kidnapped informant’s daughter Miss X and hide her in an
unknown place. To this fact, informant Noser Ali lodged written ejahar before
O/C Bilasipara PS.
Investigation

2. Officer in charge Bilasipara PS, on receipt of ejahar from informant
Noser Ali registered a police case vide Bilasipara PS case no. 361/14 u/s 366A
I.P.C r/w section 4 of POCSO Act and SI Uttam Goswami was entrusted to
conduct the investigation of the case and after completion of investigation
I/O submitted charge sheet 366(A) r/w section 4 of POCSO Act against the

accused Sajmal Ali Sk. @ Masmal Ali and cognizance taken.

Charge

3. After hearing learned counsel for both sides and perusal of material
on record charge u/s 366A ___r/w section 4 of POCSO Act was framed against
the accused Sajmal Ali Sk. @ Masmal Ali and when charges are read over and
explained to the accused person, he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.
Trial

4. In order to prove the prosecution charges against the accused person,
prosecution adduce evidence of all together 6 number of witnesses and
exhibited 4 nos. of documents. PW-1 Dr. Anjumanara Ahmed ( M.O), PW-2

Noser Ali, PW-3 Miss X (name changed), PW-4 Mohamod Ali, PW-5 Sarif Ali @
3|Page

Jorif Ali, PW-6 SI Bitu Murmi (1.0). Ext-1 Medical report, Ext-2 Ejahar, Ext-3
Sketch Map, Ext-4 Charge sheet. After closure of the prosecution evidence,
statement of the accused person recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. Accused plea is
denial, however declined to adduced evidence in support of the plea of

denial.

5. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:-

i) Whether accused on 04-05-14 at about 05.00 pm at village Kajaikata
Pt VI under Bilasipara PS induced Miss X (name changed) aged
about 16 years old to go from her house with intent that said Miss X
may be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with accused or with
other persons?

ii) Whether accused on 20-10-13 at village Kajaikata Pt VI under
Bilasipara PS committed penetrative sexual assault on Miss xX,

daughter of informant?

ARGUMENT
6. I have heard Id. counsel for both sides. It has been argued by the ld.
defence counsel that informant as well victim of this case did not supported
the prosecution case and from their evidence it is reveal that no such incident
was took place as alleged in the ejahar and therefore accused entitled
acquittal.
PROSECUTION EVIDENCE

di PW-1 Dr. Anjumanara Ahmed is the M.O. Her evidence is that on 13-
05-14 she had medically examined Miss X, victim girl of this case and during
examination found vaginal bleeding and on 13-05-14 pregnancy test was
positive; on vaginal swab examination no spermatozoa seen. According to her
opinion- victim girl was not consisted with recent sexual intercourse/ assault
on patient but pregnancy test was found positive. In cross she stated at the
time of examination of Miss X, victim girl, her age was 16 years as per her
statement. She stated no radiological examination was done to find out
radiological age of the victim girl. She stated as per statement of victim girl
before her, she was pregnant and her pregnancy was terminated about 1
week back and same is mentioned in the column of history as stated by Miss

X, victim girl.
4|Page

8. PW-2 Noser Ali is the informant of this case. His evidence is that
victim girl is his daughter and accused is his son in law. He deposed his victim
daughter Miss X, used to stay at her maternal uncle’s house and accused
wanted to marry his daughter Miss X and gave proposal to marry his
daughter Miss X. But it hurts him and lowered his respect as accused already
married his daughter. He told the same to the villagers and as per advice of
villagers he lodged ejahar against the accused. In cross he stated
subsequently he gave his daughter marriage with accused after lodging of
case and now his daughter Miss X, gave birth of one child.

9. PW-3 is the victim girl of this case. Her evidence is that about 4 years
back from the date of deposing her evidence before the court accused
wanted to marry her but at that time she did not want to marry accused and
as accused wanted to marry her, her father lodged case. She deposed after
lodging of ejahar, police produced her before doctor for her medical
examination and thereafter she was produced before Magistrate to record her
statement and she made statement before the Magistrate. Thereafter she
married with accused with her consent. In cross she stated after lodging of
ejahar she married with accused and at present she is leading happy conjugal
life with accused and they are blessed with one daughter.

10. Evidence of PW-4 Mohamod Ali is that he has no knowledge about the
incident and he does not know why Noser Ali lodged case against the
accused. Defence declined to cross examine PW-4.

11. PW-5 Sarif Ali @ Jorif Ali deposed he has no knowledge about the
incident and does not know why Noser Ali lodged case against the accused.
Defence declined to cross examine PW-5.

12. PW-6 SI Bitu Murmi is 1.0 of the case. His evidence is that on 25-09-
15 O/C Bilasipara PS handed over case diary of Bilasipara PS case No. 361/14
u/s 366(A)/34 I.P.C r/w section 4 of POCSO Act and directed him to made
further investigation of the case but as he was transferred he again handed
over the case diary of said case to O/C Bilasipara PS. He deposed SI Uttam
Goswami on being endorsed by O/C Bilasipara PS conducted the
investigation. SI Uttam Goswami recorded statement of informant, victim and
other witnesses, produced victim girl before the doctor for medical
examination, produced victim girl before the court to record her statement
u/s 164 Cr.P.C; drawn sketch map of place of occurrence, arrested accused

and produced accused before the court. He further deposed in this case SI
5|Page

Bijoy Kumar Das submitted charge sheet against the accused u/s 366(A) IPC
r/w section 4 of POCSO Act. In cross he stated as per ejahar incident was
took place on 20-10-13 and ejahar was lodged on 09-05-14 after 10 months.
He stated in the ejahar another date of incident shown as 04-05-14 and on
that day victim was alleged to be kidnapped but CD revealed on 04-05-14 no
written ejahar; no verbal information was given on 04-05-14 about the
incident. He denied his earlier IO did not made proper investigation in this
case and his successor IO submitted improper charge sheet against the
accused person.
DISCUSSION, DECISION & REASON THERE OF:-

13. Prosecution allegation leveled against accused Sajmal Ali Sk. is that on
20-10-13 at village Kajaikata Pt VI under Bilasipara PS accused had
committed penetrative sexual assault on Miss X, daughter of informant and
again on 04-05-14 at about 05.00 pm at village Kajaikata Pt VI under

Bilasipara PS accused had induced informant’s daughter Miss X (aged about

 

16 years old) to go from her house with intent that said Miss X may be forced
or seduced to illicit intercourse with accused or with other persons.

14. Now, let me scrutinized the material and evidence on record to find
out whether evidence on record able to establish prosecution charges of
kidnapping and charge of penetrative sexual assault by accused Sajmal Ali Sk.
15. PW-2 is the informant of this case. His evidence pointed accused
married his daughter and in relation accused is his son in law. He lodged the
case against the accused Sajmal Ali Sk on being advised by villagers as
accused had given proposal to marry his daughter Miss X and same lowered
his respect in the society. His cross pointed now accused married his
daughter Miss X and leading conjugal life with her. Evidence of PW-2 while
adducing evidence before the court did not alleged that accused Sajmal Ali Sk
had kidnapped his daughter and had committed forceful sexual intercourse
with his victim daughter Miss X. Thus, it is seen that PW-2 did not support his
statement made in the Ext-1 ejahar and PW-2 totally overturn the
prosecution case.

16. PW-2 is victim girl of this case. PW-2 stated in similar line as stated by
informant. She also stated her father lodged the case against the accused
Sajmal Ali Sk as accused wanted to marry her. In cross she stated after
lodging of the ejahar, her marriage was solemnized with accused and her

father lodged the case due to mis understanding. PW-2 before the court did
6|Page

not alleged that accused Sajmal Ali Sk had committed penetrative sexual
assault on her or had kidnapped her from her house. Her evidence only
pointed accused wanted to marry her but at that time she does not wanted to
marry accused.

17. On conjoint reading of evidence of PW-2 informant and PW-3 victim
girl it is reveal that their evidence does not pointed any single material
against the accused Sajmal Ali Sk and from their evidence not a single
ingredient of section 3 of POCSO Act and 366A appear against the accused
Sajmal Ali Sk. Moreover, their evidence totally over turn the prosecution case
and bring different story that goes in favour of the accused person.

18. Evidence of PW-4 and PW-5 pointed they do not have any knowledge
regarding incident. Thus, their evidence does not help the prosecution case.
19. In view of my discussion, and on scrutiny of the entire evidence on
record, I come to my definite finding that prosecution totally failed to bring
home charge u/s 366(A) and section 4 of POCSO Act against the accused
person Sajmal Ali Sk. @ Masmal Ali. Accordingly accused Sajmal Ali Sk. @
Masmal Ali is acquitted from the charge of section 366(A) and section 4 of
POCSO Act and set at liberty.

20. Bail bond of accused person shall remain stands for next six (6)
months u/s 437(A) Cr.P.C.

21. Given under hand and seal of this Court on this 12" day of November,
2018 at Bilasipara, Dist- Dhubri.

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara

Dictated and Corrected by me,
(Smti S. Bhuyan)
Special Judge, Bilasipara

Typed by,
Swmkhwr Brahma, Stenographer Gr. III.
7|Page
APPENDIX

PROSECUTION WITNESS:-

PW-1 Dr. Anjumanara Ahmed (M.O),
PW-2 Noser Ali,

PW-3 Miss X (name changed),

PW-4 Mohamod Ali,

PW-5 Sarif Ali @ Jorif Ali,

PW-6 SI Bitu Murmi.

PROSECUTION EXHIBIT:-
Ext-1 Medical report,
Ext-2 Ejahar,
Ext-3 Sketch Map,
Ext-4 Charge sheet

DEFENCE WITNESS — :- NIL
DEFENCE EXHIBITS :- NIL
COURT EXHIBITS i NIL
COURT WITNESS * NIL

(Smti S. Bhuyan)

Special Judge, Bilasipara
