IN THE COURT OF DISTRICT & SESSIONS JUDGE: CACHAR; SILCHAR
SPL. POCSO CASE NO .37 of 2016
(U/S 366 IPC.& U.S. 4 of POCSO Act. 2012)

Present:-Shri K. Choudhury, LL.M.,
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
NS) Ko] Ko) Ste | Complainant.
-Versus-
Baharul Islam Barbhuiya @ Laskar

S/O Late Jalal Uddin Barbhuiya @ Laskar,
Vill — Dhanahari Part II,

P.S. SOMA, CACNAN...........cccccccccseeecceceeeeeceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeeesseeteeeeeensaeaeas Accused
Charge framed ON tm........ceccceceesseeeeeesseeeecssseeeesssneeeesssstseeesssaes 01.12.16
P.Ws. examined on:-............5 21.12.16; 05.01.17; 06.02.17; 03.06.17;
C.WS CXAMINEM ON fm...... cece eececceeeeeeeeeeeeeeeessesseeeeeeeeas 07.08.17; 24.08.17

Statement of accused recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C :- .24.08.17.
Argument heard ON)1..........::cccccccccccsteeeesseteeessieeeeescenneeaaeeaaes 27.10.17.

Judgment pronounced and delivered ON?! ..........cccceeecseeeeeeeee ees 31.10.17.
Learned Counsel Appeared

For the State: ~....... cc ccccccceeeeeeeeeeeees MrR. M. DasS,.......cccccee Ld. P. P.

For the ACCUSCC:!~........::ccccccceescsssteeees Mr. A. M. Barbhuiya.....Advocate.
JUDGMENT

1. In the instant case, the FIR was lodged on

12.09.2016 to the effect that on 10.09.16 at about 7 p.m. in the

absence of the informant in the house, the accused kidnapped the
minor daughter of the complainant, herein below referred as the victim.
Search was made but the victim could not be traced out. Thereafter,
FIR was lodged and the same was registered as Sonai P.S. Case No.
269/16, U/S 366 (A) I.P.C.

2. During investigation, victim was recovered and she
was medically examined. Doctor opined her age as above 16 and below
18 years. She gave statement before the Magistrate where she
disclosed her age as 14 years and also stated that at that time she was
a student of class IX and on the date of occurrence, at about 5 p.m.
while her mother was in the bathroom and she was in the kitchen, the
accused from her back side pressed her mouth and forcibly took her.
She was then made to sit on a motorcycle in between accused and one
other. She was then taken to Sadhinbazar in the house of one relative
of the accused. There she was raped. On her raising alarm, two female
arrived there and at that time, the accused went away. She was

recovered by police.

3. On completion of investigation, I.0. submitted
charge sheet against the accused U/S 366(A) I.P.C. Learned Judicial
Magistrate 1% Class, after procuring the attendance of the accused and
after furnishing copy of necessary police papers committed the case.
This Court after hearing both sides and perusing the materials on the
record framed formal charges U/S 366 I.P.C. and U/S 4 of Protection of
Children from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act 2012. The charges were
read over and explained, to which the accused pleaded not guilty.Hence

trial began.

4. To prove the case, prosecution examined as many
as seven P.W.s. Two more witnesses being teachers were examined as
C.W. on the prayer of the defence. Defence pleas are that at the
material time the victim was a major and she was not kidnapped and
raped by the accused. Defence also took the plea in the cross
examination of the victim that she at her own will went with the
accused by a bike. The accused in his statement recorded U/S 313
Cr.P.C. stated that he had been falsely implicated and thus pleaded as

innocent.

5. Now, under the facts and circumstances of this
case, question before this Court for determination are whether at the
material time the victim was of consenting age and whether she was
kidnapped by the accused and whether the accused committed any

penetrative sexual assault on her.

6. To decide the above points I have heard learned
counsel of both sides at length and perused the entire evidence on the

record. Findings and decisions with reasons thereof are given below:

7. P.W.-1: the father of the victim deposed that on

the date of occurrence he along with his wife went to their uncle’s
house keeping the victim and her younger sister in the house. They
returned home at about 10 p.m. and did not find the victim in the
house. The younger daughter was found crying. On query, it was
reported that one of their neighbour came to the house and took away
the victim wrapping eyes with a piece of cloth. During search, it could
be learnt that the accused was seen to have taken away the victim,
who was then aged about 14 years and a student of class VIII. On the
following morning, he lodged the FIR. Victim was then recovered from
the house of the accused by police. On query, the victim reported that
the accused fastening her eyes forcibly took her. On further query, it
was reported that the accused did bad works .i.e. ba/atkarwith her. He
disclosed that the age of his younger daughter was 6 years. After the
incident, out of fear the victim stopped going to school. He works as a
helper of mason and there is no male member in his family. The

accused was a married person having two wives and five children.

8. P.W.-2 Habibur Rahman Barbhuiya deposed that
about three months prior to his evidence and on the following day of
the missing of the victim the complainant told him that the victim fled
away with the accused. He along with three others on request went to
the P.S. along with the complainant. After lodging of the FIR, police
accompanied them to the house of the accused who were found absent
in the house. The victim was however found in the house. Mother of the
accused handed over the victim to the police. The victim was examined
by the police at the place of recovery. During that period, the accused
was found on the northern side of their homestead concealing himself

behind the graveyard. Accused was then apprehended. He was declared
hostile by the prosecution and he denied that he gave statement to the
I.O. that father of the victim told him that the accused forcibly took

away the victim.

9. P.W.3, mother of the victim deposed that out of her
two daughters, the victim is the eldest and the youngest one was aged
about five years and the victim was aged about 17 years. At the
material time, at one evening, she went out keeping her daughters in
the house. On return, she found the younger daughter as crying and
the victim was missing. On query, the younger daughter reported that
one person gagging mouth of the victim took away. Father of the victim
returned home at about 10 p.m. Search was made to trace out the
victim. On the following day, it could be learnt that the accused took
away the victim. She then visited the house of the accused and made
request to return the victim but the accused threatened her with a dao.
After that her husband lodged FIR. At that time, the victim was a school
student. After the alleged incident, the victim discontinued her studies

out of fear of the accused.

10. P.W.4, the victim of this case deposed that about
four months prior to her evidence and three days prior to the Bakri Eid
at one evening at about 7 p.m. while she was in the kitchen, the
accused came there and forcibly took her and with a motorcycle took
her to one of his relative’s house following a lonely road. There she was
kept for three days. During that period on two nights the accused used

force on her and committed penetrative sexual assault on her. After
filing of the FIR, when the accused wanted to take her to his house with
a bike police caught them and it was happened at 8 p.m. Exhibit-2 is
her statement recorded by Magistrate. She also disclosed everything to
the doctor.

11. P.W-5 Dr. Mrs. Monalisa Dev deposed that on
13.09.2016 on police requisition she examined the victim Parvina
Begum Mazumder, who gave history to the effect that on 10.09.2016
when the victim was standing outside her house at about 5 p.m. a boy
named Baharul Islam Barbhuiya of her village came there and forcefully
took her to an unknown place and kept her in his relative’s house for
two days and had forceful intercourse with her. After that on
12.09.2016 he brought her back to his house at around 10 a.m. and
police went there and brought her back. It is further deposed that no
bodily injury was detected. There was hymnal tear at 5 ‘O’ clock
position. X-ray of wrist joint showed epiphysis of lower radius and ulna
appeared and found partially fused with parent bones; elbow joint
showed epiphysis appeared and fused with parent bones;in the
shoulder joint humeral head epiphysis found appeared and almost
completely fused with parent bone;in pelvis iliac crest epiphysis found
as appeared and was in the early process of fusion with parent bone. It
is also deposed that the report was prepared by Dr. Bhaskar Jyoti Pegu,
Registrar Radiology S.M.C.H. She on the basis of physical including
dental examination, laboratory and radiological investigation opined that
the age of the victim as above 16 years and below 18 years. Exhibit-3 is

her medical report with her signature. The same report was concurred
and forwarded by Dr.Gunajit Das, Head of the Forensic Medicine,
SMCH.

During cross examination, she stated that x-ray plate bears name of the
patient with number. The age report of ossification test varies two years
of error on either side and the report includes the error of two years.
She further stated that it is not always necessary that a minor victim of
sexual harassment shall receive some injuries on genital organs even in
case of first incident. Similarly it is not necessary that in case of first
incident of sexual assault on a minor girl there must be oozing of blood
from the genital. Injuries over the person of the minor victim would
vary upon the facts and circumstances of its case and also depend upon
the nature of resistance made on the part of the victim. She denied the
suggestion that her findings with regard to the age of the victim was
not correct and at that time the victim was a major and the victim did

not narrate any incident.

12. P.W.6 Dr. Gunajit Das deposed that on 13.09.2016
Dr. (Mrs.) Monalisa Dev working as G.D.M.O in the Department of
Forensic Medicine, S.M.C.H., carried out the examination of Parvina
Begum Mazumder, i.e. the victim and submitted report the Exhibit-3.
Before submitting the report, he had a consultation and set together to
discuss the findings and framed opinion and thereafter the final report

was forwarded to the I.O.

In the cross examination, he stated that as per standard protocol in the

department, there must be some discussion before forwarding any
report or concurring any opinion as the concerned department is an

academic department.

13. P.W.7, the 1.0. of this case deposed that in the
course of investigation, he visited the P.O., .i.e. house of the
complainant and recorded statement of the witnesses. On 12.09.2016,
he recovered the victim from the house of the accused situated in the
same village of the complainant. He further deposed that while he was
returning, it was reported that the villagers could apprehend the
accused from near the Kabarstan where the accused was hiding
himself. Instantly, he went there and apprehended the accused. Exhibit-
4 is the sketch map of the P.O. On completion of investigation, he
submitted charge-sheet. During investigation, the complainant handed
over one photocopy of school certificate in the name of the victim and
as per the same date of birth is 20.10.2002. He confirmed the
statement that was brought in the cross examination of P.W. 2 about
the report of forceful taking away of the victim by the accused. The I.O.
was cross examined at very length. During cross examination it has
brought out that cause of delay is mentioned in the FIR, distance
between the P.O. and the P.S. is around 7 kilometers and he could not
visit the P.O. of Sadhin Bazar as the victim could not exactly disclose
the exact place of occurrence as Sadhin Bazar. The victim was
recovered at 01.25 p.m. from the house of the accused. The defence
side confirmed some omissions which are considered as not material
omissions under the facts and circumstances and also in view of some

admissions by the accused.
14. On the prayer of the learned defence counsel two
witnesses being teachers of the concerned L.P. School,where the victim
deposed to have studied, were examined as C.Ws. According to the
C.W.1 the head teacher of 463 Dhanhari L.P. School, in the Admission
Register for the year 2007 and counterfoil of Certificate Book against
the name of Parvin Begum Mazumder D/O Asraf Uddin Mazumder, Date
of Birth is mentioned as 20.10.2002. On 04.04.2012 the then head
teacher, .i.e. the C.W.-2 issued the certificate in the name of said Parvin
Begum Mazumder showing the date of birth as 20.10.2002. Exhibit- C is
the Admission Register. Exhibit- C(1-a) is the relevant entry, Exhibit (C-
2) is the certificate book. C.W.-2 also deposed that he knew one Parvin
Begum Mazumder who studied in their said school. He also deposed
that he knew her father. He issued the certificate. Date of Birth in the
Admission Register against the name of Parvin Begum Mazumder is
20.10.2002. The defence although tried to shake out their evidence by
way of detailed cross examination but in no way succeeded in as much
as it appears that both the C.Ws knew both the victim and her father
and they confirmed the title of the victim as Mazumder written in short
form as “Mong” and also asserted that Parvin Begum Barbhuiya and
Parvin Begum Mazumder is the same person. In the relevant Admission

Register, no other Parvin Begum is found.

15. In view of the above evidence, the learned P.P. has
submitted that there is no material contradiction and there is no reason
as to why the evidence of the victim substantially corroborated by the
testimony of other material witnesses cannot be relied upon. It is

further contended that medical evidence regarding age of the victim is
-10-

corroborated not only by other ocular evidence but also by documentary
evidence. On the contrary, learned defence counsel strongly contended
that there are some material discrepancies and infirmities to discredit
the testimony of the victim and her parents. Further, age of the victim
is not cogently proved to show that she was below 18 years of age and
margin of error of 2 years shall be added in the maximum age of the

victim opined in the medical report the Exhibit-3.

16. In support of the contentions, the learned defence
counsel cited the following decisions:

i. (2003) 1 GLR 569 “, Failure to examined the radiologist held
to be serious omission on the part of the trial Court.”

ii. 2008 (SUPPL.) GLT 138, “ Ossification test indicating the age
of the victim as above 16 years and below 17 years with
variation of 2 years on either side — held — benefit must go to
the accused- victim, held aged 18 years on the date of
occurrence.’

ii. 2016 (4) GLT 1108, “

iv. 2012 7 Supreme Court Cases 171

V. (2006) 9 Supreme Court Cases 713

Vi. (2011) Supreme Court Cases 130

17. Perused the above decisions. Facts and
circumstances of the above cited cases are found to be different with
that of the case in hand. In the instant case, the prosecution
examined 2 doctors and according to them margin of errors of 2 years

is inclusive and they asserted that age of the victim shown in the
-11-

medical report, the Exhibit-3 is true. According to father of the victim
the P.W. 1, the victim was aged about 14 years and was a student of
class VIII. The victim herself stated her age as 14 years. Ossification
test of iliac crest also suggests that the victim was aged below 18
years age, in as much as it was in the initial stage of fusion. Further as
per the evidence of two C.Ws who were called at the instance of the
defence side cogently proved the date of birth of the victim as
20.10.2002. That being so, age of the victim on the date of the
alleged incident was just above 14 years. Therefore, it can rightly be
arrived at that at the material time, the victim was undoubtedly a
minor. In the cross examination of P.W. 3, the defence took the plea
by way of putting suggestion that the accused and the victim had love
affairs and accused did not take the victim forcibly which was denied
by the P.W. 3. In the cross examination the victim asserted that
accused gagging her mouth pulled her and she tried to get rid of him
but failed. At the time of getting rid of she sustained pain injury in the
abdomen and hand. Prior to the alleged incident, she had no sexual
relation with any other person and it was the first time to have the
experience of sexual intercourse. The accused forcibly had sexual
intercourse with her. She tried to resist him but failed. She did not
sustain any injury except pain. The defence suggestions are of mere
denial and according to the defence, she being tutored by her parents
gave statement before the Magistrate. She also denied the suggestion
that she had love affairs with the accused and on the date of
occurrence in the evening seeing the absence of her parents in the
house she made a ring and asked the accused to come and on his visit
she at her own will went with him by his bike. That being the nature of

plea, the defence virtually admitted the allegation of taking away with
o17.

a bike. That being the virtual admission, age of the victim is more
relevant. The age of the victim is found to be established by the
prosecution through cogent evidence as alluded earlier. Findings of the
doctor regarding old hymnal tear is also suggestive to the fact of
penetrative sexual assault and the same is asserted by the victim both
in her examination in chief and also in her cross examination. No
contradiction or material omission could be brought in the entire
evidence on the record to impeach the evidence of any of the material
witnesses. The conduct of the accused at the time of his
apprehension, .i.e. evidence of his hiding behind the graveyard at the
time of recovery of the victim also indicates his guilty state of
mind.some discrepancies are found here and there in the evidence on
the record which can be overlooked especially in view of the plea
taken by the accused as stated earlier and also for the fact that same
do not materially affect the substance of the prosecution case. No
reason is found to disbelieve the testimony of the material witnesses
including the victim. The evidence of the victim can also relied upon in
its face value mainly on the ground that no minor victim would
generally adduce anything touching her chastity and jeopardizing her

future and family reputation.

18. In view of the above discussion, findings and
consideration of the entire evidence on the record in its entirety, it is
held that prosecution has able to prove its case beyond all reasonable
doubts U/S 366 I.P.C. and Section 4 of POCSO Act. Accordingly he is
held guilty and convicted.
-13-

19. Heard the accused on the question of sentence. His
statement are also record in the separate sheet and tagged with the
case record. He has submitted for leniency on the ground that he is
having widow mother, wife and four children whom he is to maintain.

Having due regard to the above and provisions of the Law, I convict
and sentence the accused U/S 366 I.P.C. to suffer Rigourous
Imprisonment (R/I) for a period of 3 (three) years along with fine of
Rs. 1,000/- and in default he shall further undergo R/I for a period of
1 (one) month. The accused is also convicted and sentenced U/S 4 of
POCSO Act to undergo R/I for a period of 7 (seven) years along with
fine of 3,000/- and in default he shall further undergo R/I for a period
3 (three) months. Both the sentences will run concurrently. Period of

custody shall be set of from the above sentence.

20. With regard to the compensation to the victim an
amount of Rs. 50,000/- is awarded as interim compensation mainly on
the ground that the victim had to discontinue her further study as a
result of the aforesaid act of the accused. Further compensation if any
shall be decided by the Secretary D.L.S.A after due enquiry. The

compensation so awarded be handed over to the victim or her father.

21. Free copy of the Judgment be furnished to the
accused as per as per the Provision of Section 363 of CrP.C. and a
copy also be forwarded to the District Magistrate as per section 365
of CrP.C. Copy of the Judgment shall also be forwarded to the S.P.,
Cachar, Silchar. Copy of the Judgment be forwarded to Secretary
DLSA.
-14-

22. Bail bond stands discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court

under my signature and seal of this court on this 31% October 2017

Dictated & Corrected by me

(Shri K. Choudhury), (Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge. Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by D. Paul, Stenographer -III
-15-

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, CACHAR,SILCHAR

SPL POCSO Case No. 37 of 2016
APPENDIX

 

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

P.W. 1-Asraf Uddin Mazumder.

P.W. 2—Hobibur Rahman Barbhuiya
PW. 3 — Rangi Begum

P.W. 4 — Parveen Begum Mazumder
P.W. 5— Dr. (Mrs) Monalisa Dev.
PW. 6— Dr. Gunojit Das.

P.W. 7— Apon Ch. Paul.

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL
(C) COURT WITNESSES:-

C.W. 1— Noor Ahmed Laskar.
C.W. 2— Mufiz Uddin Barlaskar

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext.1 — FIR

Ext.1(1) — Signature of P.W.-1
Ext.1(2) — Signature of the then O/C
Ext. 2 — Statement of P.W.-4.

Ex. 2(1) to 2(4) — Signature of P.W.-4

Ext.3 — Medical Report

Ext. 3(1) — Signature of P.W.-5

Ext. 3(2) — History recorded by P.W.-5
Ext. 3(3) & 3(4)
Ext. 3(5)

Ext. 4

Ext. 4(1)

Ext. 5

Ext. 5(1)

Ext. 6

Ext. 6(1)

x

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS:
(F) COURT EXHIBITS:

Ext. C

Ext. C(1-A)
Ext. C(1-B)
Ext. C(2)
Ext. C(2-A)
Ext. C(2-B)

-16-

Signature of P.W.-5
Signature of Dr. G. Das
Sketch map

Signature of P.W.-7
Arrest memo.
Signature of O.C.
Charge-sheet
Signature of P.W.-7.

- NIL

Admission Register
Relevant entry

Initial of the headmaster.
Certificate Book
Relevant entry

Signature of the then headmaster M.U. Barlaskar

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

(Shri K. Choudhury),
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
