Page 1 of 5

CAUSE TITLE
PCSO Case No. 5/14

Informant: — Sri Lalit Rabidas,
S/o- Late Lakheswar Rabidas,
R/o- New Line, Bokul Tea Estate,
PS- Lahoal,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Umakanta Rabidas,
S/o- Sri Samlal Rabidas,
R/o- New Line, Bokul Tea Estate,
PS- Lahoal,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Sri Amit Kumar Patwa, learned Advocate.
Page 2 of 5

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Shri S.K. Sharma, AJS,
Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

PCSO Case No. 5/14
G.R. Case No. 577/14

State of Assam
-Vs-
Sri Umakanta Rabidas
Charge u/S 8 PCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 12-05-15 & 27-05-15.
Date of argument : 27-05-15.
Date of Judgment —: 27-05-15.

JUDGMENT

1) Prosecution case is that the prosecutrix, who is a minor was alone in her
house in the evening on 05-03-14 and at that time, the accused went to her
house and committed sexual assault upon her. The brother of the prosecutrix
arrived at the house and on finding out about the occurrence, lodged the
ejahar whereafter, a police case was registered and_ investigation
commenced. In course of investigation, the Investigating Officer recorded
the statement of the witnesses and took other necessary steps and on
completion of investigation, submitted Charge-Sheet.

2) Upon committal, my learned predecessor framed charge under Section 8
PCSO Act against the accused person and the charge was read over and
explained to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed
to be tried.

3) In course of trial, prosecution examined five witnesses and on conclusion
thereof, the accused person was examined under Section 313 CrPC wherein
the accused person took the plea of denial.

(5) Heard Smti. R Devi, learned PP for the State and Sri AK Patwa, learned

counsel for the defence.

POINT FOR DETERMINATION
1. Whether the accused person committed sexual assault upon the

prosecutrix?
Page 3 of 5

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF

Point No. 1:

6)

7)

8)
9)

In this case, the prosecutrix was examined as PW-1. She deposed that she
knew the accused person and on the date of occurrence, at about 6:30 pm,
when she was alone in her house, the accused person came to their house
and they were talking. At that time, her father arrived at their house and
rebuked the accused person on suspicion and the accused person left their
house. She stated that her father lodged the ejahar on suspicion. During
cross-examination, she stated that she and the accused simply talked and
thereafter, the accused left. She further stated that she does not have any
allegation against the accused person.

PW-2/Sri Lalit Rabidas, who is the father of the prosecutrix and informant
similarly deposed that he saw the accused person talking with his daughter
when he came back from work. On suspicion, he rebuked the accused, who
thereafter went away from his house. He further deposed that his daughter is
about 15 years of age. During cross-examination, he stated that he did not
see any other thing except his daughter and the accused talking and his
daughter also told him that she was talking with the accused. He further
deposed that he did not write the Ext. 1/ejahar and has no allegation against
the accused and that he had lodged the ejahar due to misunderstanding.
PW-3/Smti. Sushila Rabidas is a hearsay witness.

PW-4/Sri Suraj Rabidas, who is the elder brother of the prosecutrix, stated
that he came to know from his father that the accused had misbehaved with
the prosecutrix, but admitted during cross-examination that he did not say
any such thing before the Investigating Officer. He further stated that he did

not know anything about the incident himself.

10) PW-5/Smti. Durgi Rabidas is another witness whose evidence can safely be

discarded as hearsay.

11) From the above discussion, it is clear that the prosecutrix herself as well as

the informant have not supported the prosecution case and the prosecution,

therefore, must necessarily fail. Hence, the issue is answered accordingly.

12)In the result, I hold that the prosecution has miserably failed to establish its

case and consequently, the accused person is acquitted of the offence under
Section 8 PCSO Act and he be set at liberty forthwith.

13) The bail bond shall remain in force for a further period of 6 (six) months
Page 4 of 5

under Section 437-A CrPC.
Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 27" day of May,
2015.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Page 5 of 5

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:
(1) P.W. 1 Prosecutrix;
(2) P.W. 2 Sri Lalit Rabidas;
(3) P.W. 3 Smti. Sushila Rabidas;
(4) P.W. 4 Sri Suraj Rabidas; and
(5) P.W. 5 Smti. Durgi Rabidas.
List of Exhibits:
(1) Ext. 1 Ejahar.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Transcribed and typed by:-
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
