IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE titi: KOKRAJHAR

Special Case No.38/2018

State of Assam
Versus

Md Pulak Ray _..... Accused

Present: Smti Mitali Thakuria,
Special Judge,
Kokrajhar
Ld. advocate for the State ยง:MrM.K.Ghose, Special P.P.

Ld. advocate for the accused : Mr S. Warie

Evidence recorded on: 17.8.2019
Argument heardon =: 17.8.2019
Judgment delivered on: 17.8.2019

JUDGEMENT

1. The prosecution story in brief is that on 03.7.2018 at about 3.15
P.M. the informant Smti Sabita Ray lodged the first information report to the
effect that on 03.7.2018 at about 3 P.M. her husband (accused) forcibly tried
to commit rape on her minor sister Miss Babita Barman, aged about 15 years
taking advantage of absence of her family members in the house. It is stated
that the accused assaulted her brother-in-law Sri Sardar Barman and her
mother Smti Ruhuni Barman by the bamboo lathi and they sustained injuries

on their persons. Hence, the first information report.
Special Case No.38/18

2

2. On receipt of the first information report in Kokrajhar Police
Station a case has been registered under Kokrajhar P.S. case No.319/18 under
sections 325/354 of IPC, Read With section 8 of POCSO Act and the case
was endorsed to the ASI Monoranjan Ray for investigation. During
investigation the I. O. visited to the place of occurrence, arrested the accused
Sri Pulak Ray, medically examined the victim, recorded the statement of the
witnesses. The statement of the victim was recorded under section 164 Cr.P.C.
and after ascertaining the minor age of the victim, the charge sheet has been
filed by the I.O. under sections 324/354 of IPC, read with section 8 of
POCSO Act against the accused Sri Pulak Ray. Relevant copies accordingly
furnished to the accused person by this court and the charge under section 323
of IPC, read with section 8 of POCSO Act were framed against the accused
person finding a prima-facie case. The charges were read over and explained
to the accused person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
3. The prosecution side examined as many as 03 (three) number of
witnesses including the informant and the victim as follows:-

PW 1 Smti Sabita Ray (Informant),

PW 2 Miss Babita Barman (Victim) and

PW 3 Smti Rahini Ray.
4. The defence took the plea of total denial and he has not adduced
any evidence in support of his case. Recording the statement of the accused
person under section 313 CrP.C. was dispensed with as there was no
incriminating material against the accused person in the testimonies of PWs.
5. Points for determination:

(1) Whether the accused voluntarily caused hurt to the victims

Sri Sardar Barman and Smti Ruhuni Barman by the bamboo

lathi ?
Special Case No.38/18

3
(2) Whether the accused committed the offence of sexual assault
to the minor victim Miss Babita Barman ?

Discussion, Decision and Reasons thereof:

 

6. To arrive at a just decision I have thoroughly perused the
evidences of prosecution witnesses, assessed them and heard argument put
forwarded of both sides and the case is decided as follows:-

7. PW1, informant of this case deposed that the accused is her
husband and on the day of the incident at about 3 P.M. she went to nearby
shop when her younger sister Babita and her husband were in her house. She
further stated that when she returned home her younger sister was crying and
on enquiry she reported that there was a quarrel between her and her husband
and her husband about to assault her out of angerness and out of suspicion she
lodged the first information report against her husband. In cross she stated
that she has no objection if the accused is acquitted from this case and she is
living with her husband and due to misunderstanding she lodged the FIR
against her husband.

8. PW2, victim of this case deposed that the informant is her elder
sister and accused is her brother-in-law. She further stated that on the day of
the incident in the afternoon she had quarreled with the accused due to some
household matters in absence of her sister and the accused was also about to
assault her and hence out of fear and angerness she was crying and when her
sister saw her crying, she lodged the first information report out of
misunderstanding. In cross she stated that her brother-in-law did not
misbehave with her and except quarrel no other incident took place and she
has no objection if the accused is acquitted from this case.

9. PW3, mother of the informant as well as victim of this case

stated that the accused is her son-in-law and during the time of incident the
Special Case No.38/18

4

accused was staying in their house and on the day of incident she was not
present in the house. She further stated that her younger daughter Babita
Barman quarreled with the accused and the accused about to assault her
daughter and out of angerness her elder daughter without proper enquiry
lodged the first information report against the accused. In cross she stated that
the accused did not misbehave with her daughter but, due to
misunderstanding her elder daughter lodged the FIR and she has no objection
if the the accused is acquitted from the case.
10. From the testimonies of the prosecution witnesses it is seen that
except a quarrel between the accused and the victim no other incident took
place. The victim herself stated that the accused did not misbehave with her.
The informant lodged the FIR only out of misunderstanding as she had
suspicion on the accused when she saw her sister crying. There is no
allegation of any aruct or sexual assault against the accused.
11. So from the detail discussion made above, it is seen that the
prosecution could not establish the case against the accused Sri Pulak Ray
under section 323 of IPC, Read With Section 8 of POCSO Act beyond all
reasonable of doubt and hence giving the benefit of doubt, I hereby acquit the
accused and set him at liberty forthwith.

The judgment is delivered in the open court and given under my

hand and seal of the court on this 17th August/2019 at Kokrajhar court.

Dictated & corrected by me

Special Judge, Special Judge,
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
