(1)

Before The Special Judge,

Cachar at_ Silchar.

Present: Mr. D.Ullah, A.J.S
Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.

Spl(POCSO) Case No. 16 / 2019
u/s 363 IPC r/w sec.8 of the POCSO Act
The State of Assam
-Versus-

Dilwar Hussain Mazumder
accused person

Dates of evidence: 26.11.19
Date of argument : 26.11.19
Date of judgment : 26.11.19
Appearance:-

: Miss. B. Acharjee, Id. .Spl.P.P.
Mr. M.H.Mazumder. Ld. advocate

For the Prosecution

For the Defence :

JUDGMENT

1. The brief facts of the prosecution case is that the

informant namely, Makhanlal Das had lodged an ejahar dated
(2)
21.12.18 stating inter alia, that on 20.12.18 at about 5 pm
the accused kidnapped the minor daughter of the informant
with his Nano Car bearing registration No.ML 04 B 7699. It is
also stated that the accused also molest the daughter of the
informant and hence the case.
Zs Accordingly, on receipt of the ejehar, police registered
a case being Kachudram P.S Case No.123/18 u/s 366 of the
IPC r/w sec.8 of the POCSO Act. Thereafter, on completion of
investigation police submitted a charge sheet against the
present accused person u/s 363 of the IPC r/w sec.8 of the
POCSO Act and sent up the accused person to face trial.
3. The Ld. CJM., Cachar, Silchar committed the case to
the to this court . Thereafter, on 15.6.19 this court received
the case record and registered the same as a Spl(POCSO)
case. The accused person namely, Dilwar Hussain Mazumder
has appeared before this court and on 9.9.19 after hearing
the prosecution and the defence counsel, this court was
pleased to frame charges u/s 363 of the IPC r/w sec. 8 of
the POCSO Act against the accused person and its particular
was read over and explained to him to which the accused
pleaded not guilty and stood to face the trial.
4. Thereafter, the trial of this case was commenced ,
during which the prosecution examined the informant and
the victim as the P.W.1 and the P.W.2 respectively . The Ld.
Spl.P.P has submitted that as the PW.1 & the PRW.2 have

failed to implicate the accused person with the alleged
(3)
offence, the prosecution evidence may be closed. As there
was no incriminating materials has come out against the
accused person in the evidence of PW.1 &2, the statement
of the accused person u/s 313 of the Cr.P.C is dispensed with.
5. Heard the Ld. Spl.P.P and also the Ld. Counsel
appearing for the accused person .
6. Point for determination:-

(i)Whether on or about the 20.12.18 at about 5 pm at
Mohankal under Kachudaram P.S the accused person
kidnapped the victim, i.e. the minor daughter of the
informant while she boarded in the vehicle of the accused
from Amraghat from the lawful guardianship of her father
for going to her own house , as alleged ?

(ii)Whether on the same date, time and place the
accused person committed sexual assault upon the victim,
as alleged ?

Discussion , Decision and Reasons Thereof :-

7. In this case the prosecution side examined as many as
7(seven) witnesses to prove the case.

8. The P.W.1 — Makhanlal Das, the informant of the case .
In his evidence he stated that the occurrence took place
about a year ago and on that day he went to Amraghat
Bazaar with his daughter i.e. the victim. He also stated that
as it was raining so he sent his daughter with the accused in
his nano car with a request to drop his daughter in front of

his house. The P.W.1 also stated that thereafter he came to
(4)

his house and did not find his daughter at home and then
they made hue and cry public also gathered in front of his
house on the road and after sometime, the accused came
with his daughter in the vehicle. The P.W.1 also stated that
public stopped the vehicle and damaged the vehicle and the
accused also fled away. The P.W.1 also stated that his
daughter came down of the vehicle and later on he came to
know that the accused took her to Khasiapunji to drop other
passengers and thereafter he brought his daughter to his
house . The P.W.1 also added that somebody informed police
and police came , took him and his daughter to the police
station wherein he lodged the FIR, which is brought on
record as the Ext.2. The P.W.1 also stated that at the time of
occurrence the age of his daughter was 11 years.

During cross-examination the P.W.1 stated that the
accused took the passengers of Khasiapunji and first
dropped them there and then brought his daughter to his
house and on his return he did not find his daughter in his
house and as such they made hue and cry.

9. The P.W.2, the victim of the case and she testified that
about a year ago , her father put her in a nano vehicle of
the accused at Amraghat Bazaar to drop her at her home at
Mohankhal and thereafter the accused had not stopped the
vehicle near her house and after dropping other passengers
brought her near her home and dropped her there. The
P.W.2 further stated that she narrated the whole incident to
(5)

her father and her father lodged the instant FIR. She also
stated that police sent her for her medical examination and
also produce her to court wherein her statement u/s 164 of
the Cr.P.C was recorded. The said statement u/s 164 of the
Cr.P.C is brought on record as the Ext.1. The P.W.2 further
stated that at the time of occurrence she was a student of
class V.

During her cross-examination the P.W.2 admitted that
while she was coming in the nano vehicle of the accused
there were other Khasi passengers in the said vehicle. She
also admitted that there is a point from which her house
goes on the right side of the road and on the left side it is
Khasiapunji and on that point, the khasia people told the
accused they should be first dropped and then the accused
took the vehicle towards Khasipunji and dropped them and
thereafter brought her to her house . She also admitted that
as her father came to his house and did not find her and
when the accused dropped her there were many other
people also gathered and damaged the vehicle and on the
basis of the version of the public her father lodged the FIR.
10. Appreciating the materials on record, it is found that
though the informant P.W.1 alleged that the accused had
kidnapped his daughter but during his deposition before the
court had failed to support the said version. In his evidence
the P.W.1 stated that as it was raining so he sent his

daughter with the accused in his nano car with a request to
(6)
drop his daughter in front of his house. The P.W.1 also stated
that thereafter he came to his house and did not find his
daughter at home and then they made hue and cry public
also gathered in front of his house on the road and after
sometime, the accused came with his daughter in the
vehicle. The P.W.2 also supported the said version of the
P.W.1. Thus, from the above evidence it is crystal clear that
the accused had no intention of kidnapping the victim. Thus,
the prosecution has failed to prove the ingredients of sec.363
of the IPC against the accused person.
11. Onthe other hand, the evidence of both the informant
and victim is totally silent as regard commission of sexual
assault upon the victim. Nowhere, in the evidence , the
victim as well as the informant had stated that the accused
committed sexual assault upon the victim. Thus, the
prosecution side also failed to prove the said offence of
sexual assault upon the victim. That apart, neither the
victim nor the informant have implicated the accused person
in respect of the offences charged against the accused
person i.e. the offence u/s 363 of the IPC r/w sec. 8 of the
POCSO Act.
12. It is the bounden duty of the prosecution to prove the
necessary ingredients of the offence against the accused
person beyond all reasonable doubt .
13. Upon consideration of all the oral and documentary

evidence on record as discussed above, I have found that the
(7)

prosecution has miserably failed to prove the charges against

the accused person beyond all reasonable doubt.

O R DE R
14. Considering the materials available on record, I found
that the prosecution has failed to prove the alleged offence
u/s 363 of the IPC r/w sec.8 of the POCSO Act against the
accused person present today beyond reasonable doubt. As a
result the accused person namely, Dilwar Hussain Mazumder

is acquitted and set at liberty.

Set my hand and seal of this case on the 26" day of
November, 2019.

( Mr.D.Ullah),

Sessions Judge,
Cachar, Silchar.
Dictated & corrected by me ;

Sessions Judge, Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by -
S.A.Laskar, Stenographer.
(8)
