IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, BARPETA

Special POCSO Case No. 94/2018
U/S 366(A) IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act

PRESENT : Sri Chatra Bhukhan Gogoi, AJS,

Special Judge,
Barpeta.

Charge framed on:-20.06.2019

State of Assam

- Vs -
Saddam Hussain.......... Accused
Date of Recording Evidence on — 05.11.2019
Date of Hearing Argument on — 05.11.2019

Date of Delivering the Judgment on- 05.11.2019

Appearance :
Advocate for the State------------------ Learned Addl. P.P.
Advocate for the Accused-------------- Sahjahan Ali, Ld. Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The brief fact, of the prosecution case, is that on 03.04.2018 one Saijuddin lodged

an FIR in Mandia out post alleging inter alia that on 02.04.2018 at about 9 am while his
daughter reading in class X returning home from Satrakanara Adarsha Jatiya Vidyalay at
about 3 pm accused No 1 at the ill advised of others kidnapped his daughter and kept in
Tapajuli area under Kalgachia P.S. and allegedly committed penetrating sexual assault on

her. Hence the case.

2. Acting on the information I/C Manida out post entered in the general diary being
G.D.E No 50 dated 03.04.2018 and forwarded the same to the Baghbor Police station for

registering a case. In the meantime he under took investigated the case.

3. Receiving the information a case was registered being Baghbor P.S. case No 74/18
u/s 366(A)/34 IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act and during the course of investigation,

police recorded the statement of the witnesses, drew sketch map, sent the victim girl for
2

medical examination, forwarded her to court for recording her statement before Magistrate
u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

4. On conclusion of investigation, I/O finally laid the charge sheet against accused
Saddam Hussain u/s 366(A) IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act with a view to stand trial.

5. During the course of time, when accused appeared in court after due compliance
of section 207 Cr.P.C. formal charge u/s 366(A) IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act were
framed after hearing both sides. The particulars of the offence on being read over and

explained, accused pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

6. During the course of trial, the prosecution examined only 2 (two) witnesses namely
the informant and the alleged victim. However, considering the nature and quality of
evidence adduced by both the star witnesses giving an opportunity of hearing to learned

Addl. P.P. further prosecution evidence stands closed.

7. Examination of accused u/s 313 CrP.C. is dispense with in view of lake of
implicating materials. But on being asked accused declined to adduce defence evidence.

His plea is total denial of the prosecution case.

8. Now point for determination ;-

1. Whether on 02.04.2018 at about 3 pm the victim girl (X) was induced by
accused with intent that she may be or knowing it to be likely that she will be
forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with another person including accused
person as alleged ?

2. Whether on the same day and time accused committed penetrative sexual

assault on the victim girl as alleged ?

9. Discussion, Decision and reasons for such decision :-
I have heard the learned lawyers appearing for both sides and also carefully

scanned the entire prosecution evidence on record.

10. Before going to discuss the evidence on record it would be apposite to refer to
section 366(A) IPC and section 3 and 4 of POCSO Act, 2012.
“Section 366-A IPC: procreation of minor girl:’-Whoever, by any means

whatsoever, induces any minor girl under the age of 18 years to go from any place or to do
any act with intent that such girl may be, or knowing that it is likely that she will be,
forced, or seduced to illicit intercourse with another person shall be punishable with

imprisonment which may extent to 10 years, and shall also be liable to fine.”

“3. Penetrative sexual assault. - A person is said to commit “penetrative sexual
assault” if -

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or anus
of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not being the penis,
into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to cause penetration into
the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of the child or makes the child to do so with
him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the child or makes
the child to do so to such person or any other person.

“4. Punishment for penetrative sexual assault. - Whoever commits
penetrative sexual assault shall be punished with imprisonment of either description for a
term which shall not be less then 7 years but which may extend to imprisonment for life,

and shall also be liable to fine.”

11. Now, on perusal of the offence u/s 3 of POCSO Act it appears that section 3
defined the nature of the act/acts which constitutes the penetrative sexual assault and
section 4 of the POCSO Act provides punishment for any of the act/acts done by accused
as defined in section 3 (a) to (d) of POCSO Act.

12. From the evidence available on record particularly the evidence of the alleged
victim girl PW-2 and the informant PW-1 it transpires that contrary to the allegations made
in the FIR as well as the statement of the victim before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. (Ext. 1).
The victim in her deposition in court on oath deposed that she has love affairs with
accused and on the day of incident she went to the house of her maternal uncle without
the knowledge of her parents for which her father filed this case against accused on
suspicion. But after filing the case by her father police recovered her and got her
statement recorded before Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C.. Exhibit 1 is the statement and Exhibit
1(1) and 1(2) are her signatures. In her cross examination she stated that accused never

forced or induced her to go with him. She in fact, voluntarily went with accused Saddam
4

and she also stated to be 18 years. The PW-1 her father cum informant also deposed that

he filed the case against Saddam only on suspicion.

13. The above being the evidence of the star witnesses namely the informant and
alleged victim who are father and daughter dou, no implicating evidence/materials
whatsoever indicating commission of offences u/s 366(A) IPC or section 4 of POCSO Act
are made out because the victim in her deposition in court on oath, no where stated that
accused subjected her any sort of sexual assault on her on any occasion or to forced to
induced her to go with him. Admittedly the girl stated her age to be 18 years. If this the
case the offence u/s 366(A) IPC is clearly not made out. As regards causing of penetrating
sexual assault on victim by accused there is no such evidence emerged in the mouth of

either victim or her father.

14. Therefore, it transpires that the two vital prosecution witnesses have failed to bring
home the guilt of accused for sustaining conviction of accused u/s 366(A) IPC and section
4 of POCSO Act.

15. This being the position, this court is of the considered view that accused Saddam
Hussain deserved to be acquitted from the offences u/s 366(A) IPC and section 4 of POCSO

Act on the ground of insufficient evidence and as such he is set at liberty forthwith.

16. The terms of bail bond of accused person is extended for a period of 6 (six)
months from to-day as provided u/s 437(A) Cr.P.C.

17. Let a copy of the judgment be forwarded to the learned District Magistrate,
Barpeta as provided in section 365 Cr.P.C.

18. Let the case record be consigned to record room after completing the formalities.

19. | Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 05 day of November, 2019, at

Barpeta.

Dictated & Corrected my me.

Sd/- Sd/-
(Sri C. B. Gogoi) (Sri C. B. Gogoi)
Special Judge, Special Judge,

Barpeta. Barpeta.
APPENDIX

The prosecution has examined the following 2 nos. of witnesses:-

PW-1 Saijuddin , the informant.

PW-2 = the alleged victim

The prosecution has exhibited the following documents :-

Ext.1 = the statement of the victim girl recorded by Magistrate,

u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext.1(1) & 1(2) = are the signatures of the victim girl.

Sd/-
(Sri C.B. Gogoi)
Special Judge,
Barpeta.
