 

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE =o :::: + BONGAIGAON

Special (P) Case No. 6(BGN)/2017.
U/S 120B/366A IPC and section 6 of POCSO Act

(Arising out of G.R. Case No. 1050 of 2016)
State of Assam
Vs,

1. Bani Kanta Ray.
2. Bipul Ray and
3. Phanidhar Ray ... Accused.

PRESENT: Smti lI. Barman,
Special Judge,
Bongaigaon.

ADVOCATES APPEARED :

For the State: Smti R. Choudhury,Special Public
Prosecutor
For the accused Bani Kanta Ray : Sri M. Biswas,
Sri G.Chetri.
For the accused Bipul Ray : Sri T. Das,
For the accused Phanidhar Ray : Sri K.Raja,...Advocates
Date of Argument : 10.4.2018, 24.04.2018 and 8.5.2018.

Date of Judgment =: 09.05.2018.

JUDGMENT AND ORDER
1, The criminal law was set in motion by the victim's
father (PW 1) with lodgement of an F.IL.R (Ext 1) contending inter alia
that on 21.10.2016 at around 8.30 A.M his victim daughter 'X' (PW 2)

aged about 17 years was proceeding towards Birjhora girls college but
(2)
did not return and on the night of 21.10.2016 at about 11.30 PM some
person from an unknown phone no. 8402904572 informed him that he

had taken his daughter but had not stated where she was taken.

2. The FIR being lodged by the father of the victim,
the Officer in-charge of Bongaigaon Police station registered a case
being Bongaigaon Police Station Case No.666/2016 U/S 366(A) IPC and
ee commenced investigation. The Investigating Officer visited the place of
fr ss By _ occurrence, recorded the statement of the witnesses, seized the birth
i £ certificate and admit card of the victim, recovered the victim from

‘Chandigarh, sent her for medical examination, got recorded her statement

net rete ay .
4

ne

; /UIS 164 Cr.P.C and at the close of investigation submitted charge sheet
a

ena / against the accused persons Bani Kanta Ray, Bipul Ray and Phanidhar

SOE Ray U/S 366A IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act.

3. On production of the accused person Bani Kanta
Ray and on appearance of the accused persons Bipul Ray and Phanidhar
Ray, the case being committed by the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
. oy Bongaigaon vide order dated 28.02.2017, charge was framed against the
j Notts accused Bani Kanta Ray U/S 366A IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act and
re against the accused Bipul Ray and Phanidhar Ray U/S 120B/366A IPC.
Later on charge U/S 4 of POCSO Act is altered to section 6 of POCSO
Act against accused Bani Kanta Ray. The accused persons pleaded
innocence while charge was read over and explained to them and

therefore, the trial commenced.

4, POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:
1)Whether accused Bani Kanta Ray on 21.10.2016
Contd...

 
(3)

at 8.30 A.M under Bongaigaon Police Station
induced the victim under the age of 18 years to go
with him with intent that she may be or knowing that
it is likely that she will be forced or seduced to
illicit intercourse with others and thereby committed

an offence punishable U/S 366 A IPC ?

ii) Whether on 21.10.2016 and thereafter at Rangiya,
Guwahati and Chandigarh accused BaniKanta Ray
committed aggravated penetrative sexual

assault on the victim girl below the age of 18 years
more than once and thereby committed an offence
punishable U/S 6 of POCSO Act ?

 

iii) Whether the accused Bipul Ray and Phanidhar

on 21.10.2016 at 8.30 A.M under Bongaigaon Police

Station committed conspiracy to induce the victim

under the age of 18 years to go with accused Bani
} M4 Kanta Ray with intent that she may be or knowing
hy a that it is likely that she will be forced or seduced to
illicit intercourse with others andthereby committed
an offence punishable U/S 120B/366 A IPC ?

5. During the trial, to bring home the charge against the
accused persons, prosecution side examined as many as 10 witnesses. In
statement U/S 313 Cr.P.C, accused persons denied the accusations
made against them and also declined to lead evidence. Accused Bani

Kanta Ray also pleaded that the victim is a major one and she on her own
(4)

went with him. He denied of committing any sexual assault on her. I
have heard argument of both sides and also gone through

meticulously the evidence of the witnesses on record.

DISCUSSION, DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF:

 

 

* _ 6. Mrs Choudhury the learned Special Public
“Prosecutor for the State submits that the evidence on record is clear and

s ¢onsistent and established the ingredients of alleged offence.

7. Contrary to the argument so advanced by the learned

Special Public Prosecutor, the learned counsel Mr M. Biswas appearing

 

for the accused Bani Kanta Ray, taking me through the evidence

particularly the evidence of the victim (PW 2) and her parents, submits

that the charge U/S 366A IPC and 6 of POCSO Act has not been

established. According to him, the victim girl voluntarily went with the

accused and she was not kidnapped or abducted by the accused for any of

the purpose mentioned in the section. The learned counsel of accused

4% Bipul Ray and Phanidhar Ray also submit that the available evidence of
Vitw the witnesses has not established the involvement of accused Bipul Ray
and Phanidhar Ray in the alleged offence of kidnapping the victim by

accused Bani Kanta Ray.

8. In order to appreciate the arguments advanced by the
learned Special Public Prosecutor for the State and the learned defence

counsels, it would be apposite to cull out the evidence on record.

9, Informant PW 1 is the father of the victim. He
deposed that on 21.10.2016 at around 8.30 A.M his victim daughter
(3)

proceeded towards Bongaigaon Girls College where she studied in
Higher Secondary Ist Year, but till 6 P.M she did not return. Hence, they
searched her in family members' as well as neighbours' house, but did
not find her and at about 11.50 P.M one person from an unknown number
over phone informed that he had taken his daughter. On the basis of the
said phone number, he on next day informed the matter to the principal
of the college and filed the FIR. Later, on 23.11.2016 police recovered
the victim from Manimazra, Chandigarh alongwith the accused Bani
Kanta Ray and one another girl (PW 7). He also accompanied the police
to Chandigarh and in his presence, the victim was recovered. He further
stated that after recovery, the victim reported her mother that accused
Bani Kanta Ray by giving false identification, had taken her to Rangiya
by train and after one day, she was taken to Guwahati. After two days by
a bus she was taken to Barpeta wherefrom by train the accused took her
to Chandigarh. As per his evidence, the victim also reported that Bani
Kanta Ray committed sexual intercourse with the victim at Rangiya,
Guwahati and Chandigarh. He stated that at the time of incident, the
victim was 17 years old. Police also seized the birth certificate and admit
card of the victim vide seizure list Ext 2 and zimma of the same was
given to him. He stated that as per admit card and birth certificate, the
date of birth of the victim is 10.07.2000. He produced the original admit
card and birth certificate during deposition and proved the admit card as
M. Ext 1 and birth certificate as M. Ext 2 (M. Ext 1 and 2 are compared
with original). During cross he stated that he did not inform police
about receiving a call from an unknown number. He admitted that the
fact of taking the victim to Rangiya by enticing her and then to
Guwahati, Barpeta and Chandigarh and the fact of committing sexual

intercourse on her was not reported to police.

Contd...
(6)

10. Describing the occurrence, PW 2? the victim
deposed that on 28.10.2015 one person in her cell phone made a call and
talked with her and her mother. Thereafter the said person sent a
message that his name is Parag Barman, resident of Dolaigaon, Bhatipara
and is an Army personnel. Thereafter said Parag Barman used to call her
and also sent a mobile handset for her through courier service. Then she
obtained a sim card in her father's name and used to talk with said Parag
Barman in 'Whatsapp'. She stated that on 21.10.2016 she proceeded to
Birjhora Girls College for attending class of Higher Secondary Ist Year

\ and after college hours at around 3.30 PM Parag Barman over phone

called her to ASTC bus stand. Accordingly, in school uniform she went
to ASTC bus stand wherein she met a person coming from Bongaigaon
station by covering his face with 'gamocha' and with spectacle in eyes.
He had taken her towards station. Thereafter he asked her to board in the
train and also asked to change her dress. Accordingly she changed her
dress and put on a jeans and a top. At Rangiya they got down from the
train and had taken her to a hotel. In hotel Parag Barman introduced her
as his daughter and at night he did have sexual intercourse on her
forcefully. When she tried to resist, the accused had beaten her. On next
day he had taken her to Guwahati by bus. When she refused to go to
Guwahati the accused threatened to kill her. In Guwahati, he had kept
her in a hotel near Apsara Cinema Hall for 2 days where he introduced
herself as his daughter. On those 2 days also, the accused did have
sexual intercourse forcefully and had assaulted her. From Guwahati she
was taken to Barpeta by bus and proceeded to Barpeta Railway station.
In the station, they met another girl. From Barpeta alongwith the said

unknown girl, she was again taken to Rangiya train station and from

Contd...
(7)

Rangiya, she was taken to Chandigarh. She stated that in the journey by
train to Chandigarh, Parag Barman and the said unknown girl talked
between them inaudible to her. She could only hear that for next six
months she would not be allowed to use mobile or sim card to prevent
her to contact with her family. Those discussions were told to her by the
said unknown girl. In Chandigarh Parag Barman kept both of them at
Monimazra in a rented house. Parag Barman introduced the said
unknown girl as his maid. After 2/3 days, she was sent to the terrace of a
building saying that owner of the quarter would come. Parag Barman

asked her as to with how many persons she would be able to do bad act

* inaday. Then on being enquired with whom, he replied that he just said

this. On 23.11.2016 Assam police, Chandigarh police, women police
alongwith her father and one man came there and had taken her to the
Police Station at Chandigarh, produced her before Magistrate and
thereafter she returned with her father to Assam. In a question to Court,
she stated that the person who had taken her to Chandigarh raped her in
Chandigarh also and later on she came to know that the actual name of
the person who had taken her is Bani Kanta Ray. She proved her
statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C as Ext 3. During cross, she stated that she
talked with the accused Bani Kanta Ray for about one month and they
developed love. Police seized the cell phone which was given to her by
accused Bani Kanta Ray. She stated that the ASTC bus stand is a
crowded area and after boarding into the train, when the accused asked
her to change dress, she voluntarily changed her dress. But she informed
neither any passenger of the train nor TT that she was taken forcefully.
Even in Rangiya and Guwahati, she informed none that she was

committed rape because the accused prevented her from disclosing the

Contd...
(8)

matter. While she travelled by bus and train, she informed none that she
was taken away forcefully or was raped. She denied the suggestion that
out of love she accompanied the accused with intent to marry him and

did have physical relation with him voluntarily.

11. Mother of the victim deposing as PW 3 stated that
on 21.10.2016 her 17 years old victim daughter went to Birjhora girls
college in uniform but till 4 P.M she did not return. She stated that the
victim told her that she fell in love with one Parag Barman, resident of
Dolaigaon who was serving in Army. Said Parag Baman had gifted a cell
phone to the victim. She stated that on that day i.e on 21.10.2016 at at
around 11.50 P.M Parag Barman over phone informed her that he had
taken the victim and then disconnected the line. On the basis of said
phone call, the FIR was lodged by her husband and later on police
recovered the victim from Punjab alongwith another girl and also
arrested the accused Bani Kanta Ray. After return, the victim told her that
afier college hour, the accused had taken her away. She further reported
that the accused Bani Kanta Ray committed her rape and also had
assaulted her. During cross she stated that since one year prior to the
incident, the victim had love with the accused Bani Kanta Ray. She
stated that her statement was recorded before recovery of the victim and
hence the fact of committing rape by the accused and assaulting the

victim was not stated before police.

12. PW 4, uncle of the victim deposed that on
21.10.2016 his niece/victim at around 8.30 A.M went to Bongaigaon
Girls College but till evening she did not return and then the father of the

victim filed the F.I.R. Later on, police recovered the victim from

Contd....
 

(9)

Chandigarh and then he heard that accused Bani Kanta Ray had taken

away the victim.

13. PW 5 another girl “Y” deposed that she met one
person namely Parag Barman in her uncle Jaleswar Ray's house and
thereafter Parag Barman used to visit her house. She stated that her
uncle introduced her with accused Parag Barman saying that he is
searching a girl for marriage. She stated that in the year 2005 Parag
Barman called her to Bongaigaon saying that his elder sister wanted to

see her. Accordingly, she came to Bongaigaon bus stand and met him.

j Then Parag Barman saying that his elder sister was at Kokrajhar, had

taken her to Kokrajhar by train. But after reaching Kokrajhar again

saying that his elder sister resided at Fakiragram, had taken her to
Fakiragram wherefrom by the same train she was taken to Delhi. She
stated that from Bongaigaon via Kokrajhar and Fakiragram, she was
taken to Delhi by the same train. She stated that though she raised alarm
but nobody came forward for help. Later on, she was fed something in
the train after which she became senseless. From Delhi accused Bani
Kanta Ray took her to Chandigarh by bus and kept her there in a rented
house wherein Parag Barman did have physical relation with her
forcefully for about one month and when she resisted, the accused had
assaulted her. After one month, Parag Barman made her have sexual
relation with other persons and whenever she was going to protest, he
had assaulted her. At that time she was 14 years old. Thus, she passed 5
years with Parag Barman during which period he employed her for
prostitution. She stated that during that period, she learned Hindi

language. She alleged that whenever Parag Barman used to go out from
(10)

the rented house, or when he went to his own house, he kept her under
lock and key from outside supplying all the essential articles inside the
room and whenever she wanted to return home, she was assaulted. After
5 years she had brought her back home but he had not married her. She
further deposed that Parag Barman earned money by engaging other
girls for purpose of prostitution like her. In the year 2010, he in the
pretext of taking her home, he left her upon road and after some days
with the help of some AAKRSU boys, she called the accused and handed
over him to police. But during pendency of the said case, he was
enlarged on bail and again fled away by taking another girl. She stated
that after 3 years of staying at Chandigarh, she came to know that the
actual name of Parag Barman is Bani Kanta Ray, resident of Ghoramari,
Sorbhog and he has wife and one son. But Bani Kanta Ray told her that
he had divorced his wife. She stated that when accused Bani Kanta Ray
had taken her, he was 40/45 years old. Later on, seeing Bani Kanta Ray
on T.V in the present case, she contacted with police so that the victim of
this case would get justice and no other girl would be victimized by him.
She in the Court identified the accused Bani Kanta Ray. She proved her
statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C recorded in this case vide Ext 4. During cross
she stated that police had not recorded her statement in connection with
this case. She admitted that since she was taken by the accused in the
year 2010, her family members did not file any case. She stated that
while she was taken to Chandigarh from Delhi by bus, she did not raise
any alarm as she did not know Hindi at that time. She admitted that she
had not seen any weapon like dagger in the hand of accused Bani Kanta
Ray and she did not lodge any FIR at Chandigarh. She stated that when

she learned Hindi language, she lost everything and out of defame, she

Contd....
wit
oi

pater ENT te, 6
arr . “Te,

(11)

could not come home. She stated that she had no other elder family
members except mother and hence no FIR was filed after she was taken
away. She denied the suggestion that the accused did have sexual
intercourse with her on her own will. She stated that because of this, she
and her sister could not get married. She further stated that at
Chandigarh she did not raise any hulla because she was afraid that in

that case, she would not be able to return home.

14. PW 6, cousin brother of the victim, deposed that on
21.10.2016 at around 8.30 A.M the victim in uniform proceeded to
Bongaigaon Girls college but till afternoon she did not return and
thereafter someone introducing himself as Parag Barman, informed the
victim's mother that he had taken the victim away. Then on being asked
to return, Parag Barman replied that he would marry the victim and after
about 1 2 months police recovered the victim from Chandigarh. He
stated that later on he came to know that the actual name of Parag

Barman is Bani Kanta Ray.

15. PW 7, 'Z' another girl claimed that accused Bani
Kanta Ray married her by exchanging garlands. During deposition this
witness identifying the accused Bani Kanta Ray in the dock told that. in
the year 2011 he got introduced with her in the name of Bubul Ray and
became well acquainted with her at the residence of her paternal uncle.
Thereafter they developed love for about two months and during that
period, accused Bani Kanta Ray gave her a cell phone. He further stated
that after one month of developing love, accused Bani Kanta Ray came
to her house at Khagarpur and had taken her to Rangiya. After keeping
one night in a hotel at Rangiya, he had taken her to Bongaigaon and kept

Contd...
Ls
ix

(12)

her in a hotel there for one night and thereafter he took her to Guwahati
wherefrom he took her to Chandigarh. She stated that at Chandigarh,
accused Bani Kanta Ray married her at 'Manosa Devi temple’ by
exchanging garlands and since then she resided with him as husband and
wife. At Chandigarh he kept her in a rented house near Samadhi gate,
for about 2 years. From Samadhi gate, she was kept in 'Laal Killa' in a
rented house and thereafter he kept her in another rented house at
Monimazra. She stated that when accused Bani Kanta Ray had taken

her, she was 16 years old and in Chandigarh she came to know that the

. name of Bubul Ray is Gautam Mandal. From Monimazra rented house,

she was recovered by police from whom she came to know that Bubul
Ray's actual name is Bani Kanta Ray. Thereafter, on 15.10.16 they
boarded a train at Chandigarh and reached Rangiya station on
18.10.2016 wherefrom she was received by her family members and
after she had been residing with her family for four days from
18.10.2016, accused Bani Kanta Ray over phone called her to Barpeta
Railway station and then her father and brother took her to Barpeta
Railway station to see off where she met the victim (X) of this case.
Then she alongwith the accused and the victim boarded into the train and
came to Rangiya. She stated that seeing the victim when she enquired
the accused Bani Kanta Ray about the identity of the victim, he replied
that she will work with her and would be her company. They, the three
persons went to rented house at Monimazra where the victim stayed for
one month and thereafter police brought all of them. She stated that
when police came to recover the victim, then only she knew that the
name of Gautam Mandal is Bani Kanta Ray. She stated that accused

Bani Kanta Ray told her that he is working in Supply Department.
‘e a

(13)

During cross, she stated that at Chandigarh she resided with the accused
for five years and at that time she was 18 years old. She further stated
that she stayed with the victim as usual state and during those period, the
victim reported her nothing. She further stated that the victim went with

them willfully.

16. PW 8, Hargobinda Pathak is the Investigating

Officer. He deposed that on being entrusted to investigate the case, he

| _ visited the house of the complainant, drew the sketch map of the place
_ occurrence vide Ext 5 and recorded the statement of the witnesses. He

} stated that knowing the name of the accused as Parag Barman S/O

Ananta Barman, a retired railway person, resident of Dolaigaon, he went
to Dolaigaon in search of the accused but found nobody with that name.
Then finding two mobile phone number used in the occurrence, being
8402904572 and 8196092603 and the victim's phone number
(9859515201), he collected the CDR from which he came to know that
the owner of the mobile number 8402904572 is Bipul Ray of Khagarpur.
Then he went to Khagarpur and though found Bipul Ray but his father's
name did not match. He also found that said Bipul Ray was not the
owner of the said phone and hence released him. On 25.10.2016 at 5.30
P.M Superintendent of Police informed him that the phone number
8402904572 is located at Paltan Bazar area and asked him to go there.
Accordingly, he with staff proceeded to Paltan Bazar Police station and
found that the location of the phone number is at Manipuri Basti, Paltan
Bazar and also came to know that the consumer of the phone number
8721092717 is Phanidhar Ray S/O Dinesh Ray, a resident of Rehabari,

Guwahati. As it was 10.30 P.M, at that time, hence on next day, i.e on
(14)

27.10.2016 at 9.30 A.M with staff of Paltan Bazar Police station, he
brought Phanidhar Ray to the police station and came to know that the
said phone number belonged to one Bani Kanta Ray S/O Akhanta Ray,
resident of Duramari, Police station Sorbhog. Then though they went to
the house of Bani Kanta Ray but did not find him there and on
28.10.2016 after recording the statement of Phanidhar Ray, arrested him.
On 28.10.2016 they came to know that the name of the consumer of
phone number 8402904572 is Bipul Ray who during interrogation
admitted that the said phone number is belonged to him and knew well

A Bani Kanta Ray who deceitfully took his sim card for temporary use.

a / Then he arrested accused Bipul Ray for helping Bani Kanta Ray by

giving sim card which he used in criminal activities. On 13.11.2016
from CDR of mobile no. 8402904572 and 8196092603 finding its
location at Chandigarh, he proceeded to Chandigarh with staff and father
of the victim and with the help of Police at Manimazra, Chandigarh, on
23.11.2016 found the victim in front of a room of a two storied building
at Manimazra and on being identified by the informant, recovered the
victim, arrested the accused Bani Kanta Ray @ Parag Barman @ Gautam
Mandal @ Babul and also found PW 7 with them. The victim girl was
examined by doctor and got recorded her statement U/S 164 CrP.C. He
also handed over PW 7 to her father. Thereafter, on 30.11 .2016, knowing
about the instant incident in the newspaper, PW 5 came to thana and
accordingly, her statement was recorded U/S 164 CrP.C. During cross
he stated that he did not seize the CDR and Sim card of accused Bani
Kanta Ray through which sim he talked with other accused persons. He
admitted that the informant (PW 1) did not tell him that he from his wife

came to know that accused Bani Kanta Ray by enticing had taken away
(15)

his daughter to Rangiya, Guwahati, Barpeta and then Chandigarh and
that the victim was sexually assaulted in those places. He neither
investigated in connection with the subscriber of phone number
9859515201 nor seized any document regarding subscriber of phone no.
8721092717 and 8402904572. He also had not seized any mobile

phone/sim card from accused Bani Kanta Ray.

17. PW 9, Khirod Dey, another Investigating Officer
deposed that on being entrusted to investigate the case, he had gone
., through the case diary and seized the admit card and birth certificate of

| the victim vide Ext 2, collected the medical report and on completion of

7 / “the investigation, submitted charge sheet vide Ext 7 against the accused

a

ae

a
a

 

persons U/S 366A IPC and section 4 of POCSO Act.

18. PW 10, Dr Oli Roy Chakraborty, the medical officer
deposed that on 26.11.2016 Dr Nita Moni Khandait examined the victim.
As Dr Nita Moni Khandait resigned from her service and her whereabout
was not known, hence PW 10 who knew the handing writing of doctor
was examined to prove the medical report. She deposed that on
examination of victim, found hymen torn but it could not opined
whether the victim was raped or not and the age of the victim was above
18 years and below 25 years. There was no injury mark on her private
part or body. She proved the medical report as Ext 8, vaginal smear
examination report as Ext 9, age determination report as Ext 10, urine

examination report as Ext 11 and register for sexual offence as Ext 12.

19, In this case, the parents of the victim 'X' (PW 1 and
6

¥ N .

(16)

PW 3) stated that at the time of incident victim was 17 years old and was
reading in class XJ. Regarding age, PW 9 one of the Investigating
Officer seized the birth certificate (M. Ext 2) and admit card of H.S.L.C
examination (M. Ext 1) of the victim (M. Ext 1 and 2 are proved with
original). As per the birth certificate the date of birth of the victim is
10.7.2000. The date of registration of the birth certificate is 10.8.2000
and it was issued on 10.10.2002. So the birth was registered within one
month from birth as per rule and as such there is no scope for doubt
regarding authenticity of the document. The admit card (M. Ext 2)
issued by Board of Secondary Education which is an authentic document
also tallies with the birth certificate. Thus the birth certificate as well as
the admit card reflects that on the day of alleged incident i.e on
21.10.2016, the victim was 16 years 3 months 11 days old. The

documentary evidence is also corroborated by her parents who are the

best persons to say the age of their child. Though as per radiological

report (Ext 10), the age of the victim is above 18 years and below 25
years but it is well settled that it is only an expert opinion, not amounting
to conclusive proof. The victim also deposed that at the relevant time of
occurrence she was reading in H.S. Ist Year. Generally a student appeared
in class X examination at the age of 16 years. In absence of evidence of
gap in any class for whatever reason, she was in between 16 to 17 years
in class XI. When birth certificate and admit card are found to be
authenticated and not challenged by defence, I hold that the victim was
below 18 years of age at the time of incident and was a child as defined

in section 2(d) of POCSO Act.

20. Bearing in mind the above findings as regard the age

of the victim, let me, turn to the question of alleged offence of abduction
coee

(17)

and aggravated penetrative sexual assault. While considering this, it is
worth noticing that it is the victim (PW 2) around whose evidence
revolves the entire case of the prosecution. As such her evidence is most

credential.

zl. Victim's testimony with regard to charge U/S 366 A
IPC, the accused Bani Kanta Ray got introduced himself with her over
phone as Parag Barman, resident of Dolaigaon Bhatipara, an army
personnel and thereafter he used to talk with her over phone. He also
sent a mobile hand set for the victim which shows that he induced the
victim and thus he developed intimacy with her. On the day of incident,
i.e on 21.10.2016 at 3.30 PM after college hour, the accused called her to
ASTC bus stand and accordingly when she reached there, he met her by
covering his face with 'gamocha' and spectacle in his eyes. Before that,
she never met the accused in person. Thereafter, he had taken her to
Rangiya by train and as per his direction she changed her dress in train
by wearing jeans pant and top. Her further evidence is that at Rangiya he
kept her in a hotel wherein he introduced her as his daughter and at night
he committed penetrative sexual assault on her forcefully. On next day,
she was taken to Guwahati and when she refused to go, the accused
threatened her. In Guwahati, in a hotel near Apsara cinema hall, he
committed penetrative sexual assault on her for 2 days and also had
assaulted her. The evidence of the victim shows that in Rangiya and in
Guwahati the accused did have sexual intercourse with her forcefully and
on being resisted, she was assaulted and threatened. As per evidence of
the victim, she was taken to Rangiya, Guwahati and then to Barpeta and

from Barpeta she was taken to Rangiya alongwith another girl (PW 7)
(18)

wherefrom she was taken by train to Chandigarh and in this long journey
by bus and train though she could raise alarm or resist the accused which
she did not but her evidence shows that by enticing her giving cell phone
and talking with her on several times over phone as well as in whatsapp,
he got introduced with her and in the name of love she perhaps
accompanied the accused to Chandigarh. The evidence of PW 7 shows
that in the year 2011 accused Bani Kanta Ray introducing himself as
Bubul Ray used to visit her house and after that he developed love with

her for about 2 months and during that period he gifted her a cell phone.

. Thereafter he had taken her to Rangiya fromwhere she was taken to

_ Guwahati and then to Chandigarh. At that time she was 16 years old. At

Chandigarh she came to know that the name of Bubul Ray is Gautam
Mandal. Later on from Chandigarh Monimazra, police had brought her
to Bongaigaon alongwith the victim of this case. Her evidence also
shows that at Chandigarh accused Bani Kanta Ray married her at
Manasha temple by exchanging garlands and since then she resided with
him as husband and wife. She resided with accused Bani Kanta Ray for
about 5 years. She met the victim of this case at Barpeta Road Railway
station and seeing her when she enquired the accused about her identity,
he replied that she would be help and company to her. The evidence of
PW 7 indicates that when since the year 2011, the accused resided with
her as husband and wife why, he again developed intimacy with the
victim and had taken her to Chandigarh. This clearly shows the ill
intention of the accused in taking her away. Moreover, another victim
girl PW 5 testified that she got introduced with accused Bani Kanta Ray
in the name of Parag Barman in the year 2005 who had taken her to

Delhi and from Delhi she was taken to Chandigarh wherein she was kept
we :

ie

YS

(19)

in a rented house for about one month and in those days inspite of being
resisted, he did have sexual intercourse with her forcefully and whenever
she resisted him, the accused had assaulted her. At that time she was 14
years old. She further deposed that after one month of taking her, Bani
Kanta Ray employing her for the prostitution with some other persons
earned money and whenever she resisted him she was assaulted and thus
She spent five years. After five years in the year 2010 she was taken
back and left on road. Thereafter, she with the help of some AAKRASU

boys called the accused and handed over him to police. She lodged an

' FIR with regard to that case and after being enlarged on bail in that case,

~ he fled away and warrant was issued in the said case. She also deposed

that after residing for three years at Chandigarh, she came to know that
the name of Parag Barman is Bani Kanta Ray and he has wife and son
and the accused told her that he has divorced his wife. Later on, seeing
the accused Bani Kanta Ray in T.V in the present case, she contacted
with police so that no other girl would be victimized by the accused Bani
Kanta Ray. From a combined reading of the evidence of the victim, PW
5 and PW 7 what distinctly transpires is that at different periods, the
accused Bani Kanta Ray being a man of 40/45 years in different names
got introduced with them the teenagers and somehow developing
intimacy with those minors under the age of 18 years, on the pretext of
love, had taken them to Chandigarh and did have physical relation with

them.

22. Though the learned defence counsel vehemently
argued that during the period the victim was kept in hotel at Rangiya and

Guwahati and in the journey by bus and train to Chandigarh, she could

Contd...
(20)

raise alarm or inform anybody which she did not, but it is quite natural
being a teenager girl who was under the influence of love with accused,
would not raise any alarm or inform anybody and even changed dress in
train voluntarily. At that time she has only the intention to go with him
and to lead a married life. Evidence of PW 2, PW 5 and PW 7 shows that
in the year 2005, accused Bani Kanta Ray had taken PW 5 and left her in
the year 2010 and in the year 2011, he had taken PW 7. Taking the
evidence of PW 7, if Bani Kanta Ray married her and while residing
with her as husband and wife why he had again taken the victim. Further
evidence of the victim is that whenever she resisted the accused in
having sexual relation, he used to assault her and perhaps thereafter out
of fear she could not report anybody about abduction and sexual assault.
In an unknown place in Chandigarh, she became helpless and under
dominion or control of the accused. The victim also deposed that
accused identified PW 7 as his maid whereas PW 7 resided with him as
husband and wife. The evidence of the victim shows that at Chandigarh
the accused asked her as to with how many persons she would be able to
do bad act in one day which evidence remains unrebutted during cross
examination. This part of the evidence of the victim shows that if police
did not recover her, she would be engaged for sexual act with others.
The evidence discussed above shows that the accused Bani Kanta Ray
allured the victim to go under misconception of love and under fear and
assault and had taken her to Chandigarh with intent to have sexual
intercourse with him and possibility of using her for illicit intercourse
with others in future cannot be ruled out. The accused Bani Kanta Ray in
statement recorded under section 313 Cr.P.C only took the plea that the

victim voluntarily accompanied him and denied any sexual relation with

Contd...
(21)

her. But the victim being a minor, it is immaterial whether she had gone
voluntarily or otherwise. The victim under the age of 18 years, her
consent is no consent at all, if such consent, even if given, is immaterial
for the purpose of penetrative sexual assault. Had the victim came to
him on her own, why he did not take back her home when he stayed with
PW 7 as married couple. Rather he kept her in hotel at Rangiya,
Guwahati and again took her to Chandigarh. The Apex Court in the case
of State of H.P. Vs Shree Kant Shekari (2004) 8 SCC 153 held as follows

" Sexual violence apart from being a dehumanizing

act is an unlawful intrusion on the right of privacy and sanctity of a

female. It is a serious blow to her supreme honour and offends her self-
esteem and dignity- it degrades and humiliates the victim and where the
victim is helpless innocent child or a minor, it leaves behind a traumatic
experience. A rapist not only causes physical injuries but more indelibly
leaves a scar on the most cherished possession of woman, i.e her dignity,
honour, reputation and not the least her chastity. Rape is not only a
crime against the person of a woman, it is a crime against the entire
society. It destroys the entire psychology of a woman and pushes her
into deep emotional crisis. It is a crime against basic human rights, and
is also violative of the victim's most cherished of the fundamental rights,
namely the right to life contained in Article 21. The Courts are,
therefore, expected to deal with cases of sexual crime against women
with utmost sensitivity. Such cases need to be dealt with sternly and
severely. A socially sensitized Judge is a better statutory armour in
cases of crime against women than long clauses of penal provisions,

containing complex exceptions and provisos. In the present case, the

Contd...
(22)

accused who was a teacher gratified his animated passions and sexual
pleasures by having carnal knowledge of his student, a girl of tender

age. Such offenders are a menace to civilized society."

23. The learned counsel of accused Bani Kanta Ray also
submitted that the victim was a consenting party and no injury was found
by the doctor as per medical evidence and as such, the offence of
penetrative sexual assault is not established. In the case, the victim was
recovered on 23.11.2016 and she was examined by doctor on 26.11.2016
i.e after three days of recovery and as such it is not possible to find any

injury on her private part, but doctor found her hymen torn which lends

*y, assurance to the version of the victim. In Gurbachan Singh Vs State of

\ Haryana (1972) 2 SCC 749 the Apex Court held that :

"... the absence of injury or mark of violence on the
private part on the person of the prosecutrix is of no consequence when
the prosecutrix is minor and would merely suggest want of violence
resistance on the part of the prosecutrix. Further absence of violence or
stiff resistance in the present case may as well suggest helpless surrender
to the inevitable due to sheer timidity. In any event, her consent would

not take the case out of the definition of rape."

24. That being the legal position, I feel it not necessary
to attribute much weight in the submission of the learned counsel for
accused Bani Kanta Ray. I find nothing why should a virgin depose
falsely against the accused regarding sexual assault. To disbelieve her
evidence would be tantamount to adding insult to physical and mental

injuries already inflicted on her. The evidence of the victim is convincing

Contd...
 

(23)

as it carries quality and adequate reliability. § Mr Biswas, the learned
counsel of accused Bani Kanta Ray, strenuously argued that the
Investigating Officer examined none from where the victim was
recovered to know how and in what position the victim stayed there and
as such it is serious deficiency in the name of investigation. But in a case
of offence of rape, for any loopholes in investigation, the accused can not
get benefit solely on that ground when it is otherwise proved and if an
accused person is acquitted on such ground it would be adding insult to

the injuries of the victim girl.

25. The Apex Court in (2003) 6 SCC 73 (Visveswaran
Vs State Rep. by SDM) has given a guided line regarding approach and

_. duty of Courts while appreciating evidence in the Court of offences

; under sections 376, 346 and 366 IPC and has indicated that any

deficiency or irregularity in investigation need not necessarily lead to

rejection of the case of prosecution when it is otherwise proved.

26. From a scrupulous reading of the facts and evidence
on record, I am of the view that the prosecution established that accused
Bani Kanta Ray had taken the victim from Bongaigaon to Rangiya,
Guwahati and Barpeta and again to Rangiya and then to Chandigarh in
which places, he did have penetrative sexual assault on her. Since he had
taken her to have illicit intercourse with himself and while illicit
intercourse with others has not been alleged by the victim herself, the
offence U/S 366 IPC is well established against him from the facts and
circumstances as discussed above. Thus the prosecution has been able to
establish the charge under section 366 IPC instead of section 366(A) IPC

by establishing the basic ingredients which are :

Contd...
(24)

(i) Kidnapping or abduction any woman ;

Ce (ii) Such kidnapping or abduction must be -
%N (a) with intent that she may be compelled or
knowing it to be likely that she will be compelled to
* ; marry any person against her will ; or
a | (b) in order that she may be forced or seduced to

illicit intercourse or knowing it to be likely that she

will be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse.

Accordingly accused Bani Kanta Ray is convicted for the offence
punishable U/S 366 IPC.

27. In the case, it is found that the victim is a child being
below the age of 17 years. The evidence on record cry loud and clear
that accused Bani Kanta Ray committed penetrative sexual assault on the
victim in hotel at Rangiya and Guwahati and then in Chandigarh i.e on
several occasions and presumption in terms of section 30 of the Act can
be raised regarding culpable mental state on the part of the accused. The
offence committed by the accused Bani Kanta Ray falls within the ambit
of section 5(1) of the Act i.e committing penetrative sexual assault more
than once punishable U/S 6 of the Act. Accordingly, accused Bani Kanta
Ray is convicted U/S 6 of POCSO Act.

28. As regard the complicity of accused
Phanidhar Ray and Bipul Ray in the charged offence, I find no any iota

of evidence against them except the evidence of the Investigating Officer
(25)

that accused Bani Kanta Ray used the phone number of Bipul Ray being
8402904572 which Bipul Ray claimed to be deceitfully taking the sim
from him for temporary use. In statement U/S 313 CrP.C accused Bipul
Ray admitted to be the subscriber of the said sim and stated that on
21.11.2016 accused Bani Kanta Ray in the name of making a call, took
his cell phone but later on did not return it. From CDR, the Investigating
Officer found that calls were made between 8402904572 and the phone
number 8721092717 and between 8402904572 and 8196092603 and
arrested accused Phanidhar Ray, the consumer of phone number
8721092717. From Phanidhar Ray the Investigating Officer came to
know that phone number 8402904572 and 8196092603 were used by his
brother-in-law, accused Bani Kanta Ray, and accordingly arrested him.
But nowhere any of the witnesses whispered regarding involvement of
the accused Bipul Ray and Phanidhar Ray from any corner at any point
of time. Though accused Bani Kanta Ray in his statement U/S 313
Cr.P.C stated that accused Bipul Ray and Phanidhar Ray gave him the
whatsapp number of the victim to make friendship with her, but there is
no evidence that the victim knew them or that she even went to their
house with accused Bani Kanta Ray. The statement of the co-accused
can be used not as substantive evidence, but only for the purpose of
corroboration. In the above, accused Bipul Ray and Phanidhar Ray
cannot be held guilty U/S 120(B)/366 A IPC. Accordingly, accused
Bipul Ray and Phanidhar Ray are acquitted and be set them at liberty.

Their bail bonds shall remain in force till next six months.

29). Accused Bani Kanta Ray is convicted for the offence

Contd....
(26)

punishable U/S 366 IPC and 6 of POCSO Act. Heard the convict Bani
Kanta Ray on point of sentence as per provision of section 235(2) Cr.P.C.

He prayed that he may be dealt with leniency.

30. The learned Special Public Prosecutor has submitted
that the accused is a habitual offender and one another case in similar
nature being no. Sessions 64(B)/2018 (Bijni police station case no.
333/2010) U/S 366A/372 IPC is pending in the Court of the learned
Additional Sessions Judge, Bijni, Chirang and therefore no leniency can
be shown to him whereas the defence counsel for the convict submitted

that the accused deserves leniency.

31. On the facts and circumstances on record following

- _ aggravating as well as mitigating factors are discernible :

kK Aggravation factor :

of 1. The victim was 16 years 3 months old at the

relevant time.

2.The accused identifying himself as an Army
personnel got introduced with her over phone,
developed intimacy with her and also gifted a cell
phone and then make her attracted towards him and

thus induced her to go with him in the name of love.

3. He committed penetrative sexual on her in several

places more than once by threat and assault.

Contd....
(27)

4. Accused is a matured man of 41/45 years and
prior to taking the victim, he never appeared before
her and committed the offfence in a pre planned

manner.

(5) He has the antecedent of committing similar

offence against teenager girls in the past.

; Mitigating factors :

4 1. He is aman of 43 years.

2. He claimed that the victim went with him willingly
and pleaded innocence.

32. I gave my anxious consideration on the aspect of
quantum of sentence. Sentencing for any offence has a social goal.
Sentence is to be imposed in respect of the offence and the manner in
which the offence has been committed. The purpose of imposition of
sentence is based on the principle that the accused must realize that the
crime committed by him has not only created a dent in his life but also a
concavity in the social fabric. Now let us see what the Apex Court
observed in such cases. In the case of Jameel V. State of Uttar Pradesh
(2010) 12 SCC 532, the Apex Court speaking about the concept of
sentence, has laid down that " it is the duty of every court to award
proper sentence having regard to the nature of the offence and the
manner in which it was executed or committed. The sentencing Courts
are expected to consider all relevant facts and circumstances bearing on
the question of sentence and proceed to impose a_ sentence

commensurate with the gravity of the offence."

Contd...
(28)

33. In Shaliesh Jasvantbhai and Anr. V. State of Gujrat
and Ors. (2006) 2 SCC 359, the Apext Court has observed thus :

" Friedman in his Law in changing society stated that
: " State of criminal law continues to be as it should be a decisive
reflection of social consciousness of society. Therefore, in operating the
sentencing system, law should adopt the corrective machinery or
deterrence based on factual matrix. By deft modulation, sentencing
process be stern where it should be, and tempered with mercy where it
warrants to be. The facts and given circumstances in each case, the
nature of the crime, the manner in which it was planned and committed,
the motive for commission of the crime, the conduct of the accused, the
nature of weapons used and all other attending circumstances are

relevant facts which would enter into the area of consideration."

34. In Gopal Singh V State of Uttarakhand 2013 (2)
SCALE 533, while dealing with the Philosophy of just punishment which
is the collective cry of the society, the Apex Court has started that " Just
punishment would be dependent on the facts of the case and rationalized
Judicial discretion. Neither the personal perception of a Judge nor self-
adhered moralistic vision nor hypothetical apprehension should be
allowed to have any play. For every offence, a drastic measure cannot
be thought of. Similarly, an offender cannot be allowed to be treated with
leniency solely on the ground of discretion vested in a Court. The real
requisite is to weigh the circumstances in which the crime has been

committed and other concomitant facts. "
35. From the above observation of the Apex Court it

Contd...
(29)

reveals that while dealing with sentencing various concepts, namely,
gravity of the offence, manner of its execution, impact on the society,
repercussions on the victim and proportionality of punishment have been
emphasized upon in the said cases. In the case at hand, rape committed
on a girl of below 18 years. The victim was both physically and
psychologically vulnerable. In any kind of sexual assault, the offender

should be dealt with seriously and sensitively.

36. In State of Andhra Pradesh V. Bodem Sundra Rao
AIR 1996 SC 530, the Apex Court observed that ” crimes against women
are on the rise and such crimes are affront to the human dignity of the
society and, therefore, imposition of inadequate sentence is injustice to

the victim of the crime in particular and the society in general.

a The Courts have an obligation while awarding punishment to
impose appropriate punishment so as to respond to the society's crime
for justice against such criminals. Public abhorrence of the crime needs
a reflection through the Court's verdict in the measure of punishment.
The Courts must not only keep in view the rights of the criminal but also
the rights of the victim of crime and the society at large while

considering the imposition of the appropriate punishment."

37. In State of Karnataka V. Krishnappa (2000) 4 SCC
75, the Apex Court opined that " the Courts must hear the loud cry for
Justice by the society in cases of the heinous crime of rape on innocent
helpless girls of tender years and respond by imposition of proper
sentence. Pubic abhorrence of the crime needs reflection through

imposition of appropriate sentence by the Court. It was further observed

Contd...
(30)

that to show mercy in the case of such a heinous crime would be travesty

of justice and the plea for leniency is wholly misplaced."

38. In Madan Gopal Kakkad V. Naval Dubey and Anr.
(1992) 3 SCC 204, it has been observed as follows :

see ceeesetesseeeeseey though all sexual assaults on Jemale
children are not reported and do not come to light yet there is an
alarming and shocking increase of sexual offences committed on
children. This is due to the reasons that children are ignorant of the act
of rape and are not able to offer resistance and become easy prey for
lusty brutes who display the unscrupulous, deceitful and insidious art of
luring female children and young girls. Therefore, such offenders who

are menace to the civilized society should be mercilessly and inexorably

_ punished in the severest terms."

39, Having placed both the facts mitigating as well a
aggravating circumstances to determine the quantum of sentence, I find
that the aggravating factors outweighed the mitigating factors in this
case. In a case of aggravated penetrative sexual assault punishable U/S
6 of POCSO Act, the legislature while prescribing a minimum sentence
for a term which shall not be less than ten years, has also prescribed that
the sentence may be extended upto life. In the instant case the young girl
victim with efflux of time, would grow with traumatic experience and
unforgettable shame. It is a crime against the whole body of a woman
and the soul of the society. Not only that, he committed the offence with
the victim while on bail in a similar offence instead of facing trial. He

committed a serious offence against a girl child and therefore in my

Contd...
er a,

ON .

(31)
considered view, he does not deserve a lenient consideration.

40. Considering all aspects, I sentenced the convict Bani
Kanta Ray to undergo Rigorous imprisonment for 7 (seven) years with
fine of Rs. 1000/- (One thousand) in default simple imprisonment for 1
(one) month for the offence punishable U/S 366 IPC and he is also
sentenced to undergo Rigorous imprisonment for life with fine of
Rs.5000/- (Rupees five thousand) in default rigorous imprisonment for
another two months for the offence punishable U/S 6 of POCSO Act.

Both the sentences will run concurrently.

Al. Convict Bani Kanta Ray is in jail hajot. Send the

_ convict Bani Kanta Ray to District Jail, Abhayapuri to serve the sentence.

~ 42, In view of the factual backdrop of the case

: Q particularly trauma caused to the victim perpetrated upon her, she

requires compensation. The case is recommended to the District Legal
Services Authority, Bongaigaon for compensation to the victim 'X' as per

provision of section 357A Cr.P.C.

Return the seized documents from whom the same

were seized to whom zimma was already given.

43, Let a free copy of the judgment be furnished to the
convict. Send a copy of the judgment to the District Legal Services
Authority, Bongaigaon. Also send a copy of judgment to the District

Magistrate, Bongaigaon.
(32)

44, Given under my hand and the seal of this Court on

the 9" day of May, 2018. ). &
YN Y
(I. Barman)
Special Judge,
Bongaigaon..... -

Dictated and corrected by me

g- 6 NS
Pp:
(I. Barman)

Special Judge, |

Bong jaigaon. ——

Pie ot
(33)
‘ ae
7 a aft APPENDIX
eal
Prosecution witness:
PW 1 — Father of the victim.
PW 2 -'X' Victim of the case.
PW 3 — Mother of the victim.
PW 4- Uncle of the victim.
PW 5— Victim 'Y' of another incident.
PW 6 — Cousin brother of the victim.
PW 7 —'Z' alleged to be married by the accused Bani Kanta Ray.
PW 8 — Hargobinda Pathak, I.O.
PW 9 — Khirod Dey, Another I.O.
PW 10 — Dr Oli Roy Chakraborty.
Defence Witness:
Nil.

Documents exhibited by Prosecution:
Ext-1- F.I.R

Ext-2 — Seizure list.

Ext-3 - Statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C..
Ext-4 -Statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext 5-Sketch map of the P.O.

Ext 6 -CDR.

Ext 7 — Charge sheet.

Ext 8 — medical report.

Ext 9-vaginal smear examination report.
Ext 10 — age determination report.
Ext 11-urine examination report.
Ext 12- Register for sexual offence.

Materials exhibited by Prosecution:
M. Ext 1 — HSLC admit card.

M. Ext 2 — Birth certificate.

Defence Exhibit: a
Nil we fh.
Pn. 4

(I. Barman )
Special Judge,
Bongaigaon 7

\s

ae ; ~*~

Poe
Bo:
