Page 1 of 22

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 25 of 2016
Under section 10 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of G. R Case No. 2244 of 2016)

State of Assam

—Vs—
Sri Kumud Kumar Nirsing @ Satnami ... Accused Person

Present : Smti I. Barman,AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State :  Mr.M.C. Baruah,

Special\Public Prosecutor

For the accused : \I. Ansari, Advocate
Date of Argument : 01-03-2019 &15-03-2019.
Date ofdudgment : 18-03-2019.
JUDGMENT
1. The genesis of the present case is sexual assault on a five

years old girl (herein after called as “the victim”). It is alleged that on 15-07-
2016 at around 6:30 p.m., accused Kumud Satnami had taken the informant’s
5 years old daughter/victim to his house and attempted to commit her rape.
Not finding the victim at home, when the informant searched for the victim,

found her in the house of the accused in indecent condition.

2. On receipt of the FIR (Ext.1) on 15-07-2016 from the
informant, the victim’s mother, the Officer-in-charge of Missamari PS
registered the case being Missamari P.S. Case No. 84/16 u/s 6/8 of POCSO

 
Page 2 of 22

Act and entrusted SI Pradip Kr. Kakoti to investigate the case. During
investigation, the Investigating Officer (PW 9) recorded the statement of the
witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got her statement
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and on completion of investigation having found
materials, laid chargesheet against the accused Sri Kumud Kumar Nirsing @
Satnami u/s 8 of POCSO Act.

3. On appearance of the accused person before this Court, after
furnishing the copies of the documents u/s 207 of Cr.P.C. and‘having heard
both parties, my learned predecessor, framed charge u/s“10\of ROCSO Act
against the accused Sri Kumud Kumar Nirsing @ Satnami ‘and\particulars of
the charge on being read over and explained to ‘the accused person, he

pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.

4. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as
eleven numbers of witnesses. On,<closure~of the prosecution evidence,
statement of the accused was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. wherein the accused
denied all the incriminating evidenee that emerged against him and taking the
plea of enmity regarding. land‘dispute stated that his father mortgaged 2
bighas of land to the victim's: father who threatened him not to return the
mortgaged money‘and “taking advantage of a Shradha Ceremony, he was
implicated falselyxHe also stated that just prior to the incident he came from
Bangalore. ‘Defence examined one witness in support of his plea.

5. I have heard the argument of the learned counsel of both

sides and also have gone through the materials on record.
6. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) " Whether the accused Sri Kumud Kumar Nirsing @ Satnami on 15-
07-2016 at around 6 p.m. at village Bahbera under Missamari Police Station
committed aggravated sexual assault on the victim Miss "X”, a minor girl
below the age of 12 years, and thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 10 of POCSO Act?
Page 3 of 22

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

7. Mr. M. Baruah, the learned Special Public Prosecutor
strenuously argued that the materials on record undoubtedly project a case of
sexual assault on a girl of 5 years old. He further submitted that the evidence

of the child victim of sexual assault is enough to convict the accused person.

8. Controverting the said argument, Mr. I. Ansari, the learned
counsel appearing for the accused, submitted that no explicit reliance can be

placed upon the evidence of the minor victim who is a tutored_one.

9. In this case, the victim and her parents ‘categorically stated
that the victim was 5 years old at the time of incident and\the medical report
also reflects that the victim was below 12 years of,age. Age of the victim is
not disputed in this case. As such, I unhesitatinglyshold that the victim is a

child below the age of 12 years at the time ofincident.

10. Now, the question.is.whether the accused Kumud Kr. Nirsing
@ Satnami committed any offencesonsthe victim child. In this respect, let me

travel through the evidence adduced by the prosecution side.

11. PW 3 is the victim. She deposed that on the day of incident in
the evening aftersplaying on the road with her friends Jayanti and Kirti, when
her friends=went home and she was also about to return home, accused
Kumud’ who is her neighbour came there and took her to his house on his lap
and. laid‘her*upon a bed and then ‘opening’ his pant and her panty, touched
herxprivate part through his private part. During that time, when she was
called by her mother, the accused gagged her mouth, for which she could not
respond. But noticing her chappal on the front side of the house of the
accused, her mother entered into the house of the accused and saw the
incident. Seeing her (PW 1), the accused fled away and then she reported the
incident to her mother and her uncle Shiva. She proved her statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C. as Ext. 2.

During cross, she stated that on the day of incident, many

persons attended the Shradha ceremony held at her grand mother’s house

 
Page 4 of 22

situated near her house. She stated that in the house of the accused, his
aunt, brother and many other family members were present at the relevant
time and when the accused took her to his house on his lap, she was crying
but nobody came. She stated that before recording her statement by police
and Magistrate, her mother asked her to tell what really happened and her
father asked her what is to be stated before the Magistrate. She stated that
she was accompanied by her parents and sister to the court for recording
statement before Magistrate. She admitted that before the Magistrate and
police she stated that she came to her parents crying. She\denied the
suggestion that as tutored by her parents, she stated. that™the accused

touched her private part by his penis.

12. Close on the heels of the evidencevof.the victim, her mother
PW 1 deposed that on 15-07-2016 at about 6:30\p.m. after lighting up the
lamp at home, when she searched for*her 5,years old victim daughter who
was playing in front of her house, she didnot find her and then she informed
the matter to the neighbours#At that=time she noticed the chappal of her
daughter infront of the house%of the accused. So she called her daughter but
she did not get any response; hence, she entered into the house of the
accused and found the accused and her daughter upon the bed in a naked
condition. Sheshad;seen the accused putting his penis in the private part of
her daughter.\She also noticed some jelly type white substance over her
daughter's private part and on her panty. Then on raising alarm, accused
immediately fled away from his house. Thereafter, many neighbours came
theresXand on being enquired, her daughter told that while she was playing,
aceused took her to his house on his lap, laid her upon a bed and opening her
panty and his pant, touched her private part by his penis and when she cried,
the accused gagged her mouth. She further stated that neighbours also
noticed some white substance on her panty. On the very night at around 9
p.m. she lodged the FIR, Ext.1. She stated that the FIR was written by one
Shyamanta Das as per her dictation and on being read over the contents of

the FIR, she had put her signature on it.

 
Page 5 of 22

During cross, she stated that the accused is the uncle’s son of
her husband. She denied that Pranab Sarmah and Paresh Satnami are her
neighbours. She stated that since her marriage, she never heard any quarrel
between the accused and the family members of her husband regarding
boundary of land. She denied that there is land dispute between the parties
and that they demanded Rs. 2 lacs from the accused if the accused did not
vacate the occupied land and also threatened the accused to implicate him in
a false case. She stated that on that day, there was a Shradha ceremony in
the house of her mother-in-law who resided near her house, and many
invitees attended the Shradha till 7 P.M. She admitted that thesstatement of

the victim was recorded by Magistrate after 3/ 4 daysyof thewncident.

13. PW 2 the elder sister of the victim’ssfather categorically stated
that on the day of incident at about 6.30 pwn. thesinformant reported to her
that the accused took the victim onghis lap to his house and committed
misdeed on her. Knowing about the incident, she asked her victim niece, who
also narrated that the accused’took.her to his house on his lap, then made
her lay down upon a bed,.removed her pant, and touched her private part by
his penis. At that time the accused gagged her mouth with his hand for which
she could not raise alarm and could not respond while her mother was calling
her. The informant also told her about noticing some white substance in the

private parteand panty of the victim girl.

During cross, she stated that the accused belongs to their
familyeShe denied any dispute between the accused and the family members

of the informant.

14. PW 4, Sri Jharkhand Satnami, the uncle’s son of the accused,
testified that on the day of incident, at around 6.30 p.m. the mother of the
victim girl informed him that accused had taken the victim girl to his house on
his lap, made her lay upon a bed and touched her private part with his sexual
organ. The victim’s mother also had shown him the panty of the victim where
he noticed some semen like white substance. Thereafter he went to the house

of the accused but did not find the accused as he fled away.

 
Page 6 of 22

In cross, he stated that the house of the accused is on the
other side of the road just infront of his house. This witness also stated that
on that day the shradha ceremony of his mother was held in his house till 8/9
p.m. and the invitees present in the shradha ceremony after knowing about

the incident, gathered at the place of occurrence.

15. PW 5, the niece of the informant, deposed that on 15-07-
2016 immediately after the occurrence, the informant reported to her that
at around 6.30 p.m. accused Kumud Satnami took her victim daughter on his
lap to his room and thereafter when she (victim’s mother) went to,the room
of the accused, saw the accused, committing bad act withthe victim. She
found the victim girl crying and then on being asked, the ‘victim told her that
when she was playing, accused took her on hisdap‘to‘his house, made her lay
upon the bed and touched her private part ‘withNhisysexual organ. She further
stated that the mother of the victim had shown her the panty of the victim
where she saw some white substance. She also noticed white substance on

the legs of the victim.

16. PW 6 Dr. Amarjit Kour, the Sub-Divisional Medical Officer of
KCH, Tezpur deposed that*one16-07-2016 she examined the victim and found
— no mark of injwfy.on her body as well as in her private parts. There was no
sign and symptomsvof recent sexual intercourse and the age of the victim is
below 12 years.“She has proved the medical report as Ext.2(A), x-ray report
witheplatesvas Ext.3, vaginal smear report as Ext.4 and advice slip as Ext. 5.
During cross, she stated that victim did not state about the

history of the incident.

17. PW 7, the cousin brother of the victim deposed that hearing
hue and cry in the house of his maternal uncle, the victim’s father, he rushed
there where his aunty told him that accused took her daughter to his house
on his lap and by gagging her mouth committed misdeed on her in his room
upon a bed. Then on being asked, the victim also narrated that the accused
touched her private part. Police seized the light blue colour panty of the victim

vide seizure list Ext.6. He proved the seized panty as Material Ext. 1.

 
Page 7 of 22

During cross, he stated that immediately after the incident, at
around 7 p.m. he along with his aunty and victim went to the police station
and police seized the panty on the very day at about 7 p.m. but at that time
the seized panty was not put on by the victim. He further stated that police
arrived at his aunty’s house immediately after filing the ejahar at about 7
p.m., and seized the panty of the victim from the house of informant. He
denied the suggestion that police did not seize the panty from the house of

the informant, rather they handed over the panty at the police station.

18. PW 8 Smti Renu Borah Handique, the “Scientific Officer,
Serology Division, Directorate of Forensic Science, Kahilipara;.Assam deposed
that on 30-07-2016 she had received one parcel, through, departmental In-
charge in connection with Missmari PS case NO 84/126 Under Section 6/8 of
POCSO Act sent by Dy Supdt. Of Police).Headquarter, Sonitpur, Tezpur,
containing one light sky blue colour panty(small size) having stains of
suspected semen which is Marked as “A“%, heavy growth of fungus and on

examination detected presencesof\human spermatozoa in the panty.

She has ‘proved, the report as Ext. 7, forwarding letter of
Director cum Chemical Examiner to the Govt of Assam, Directorate of Forensic
Science, Kahiliparap,Assam Guwahati-19, addressed to the Dy. Supdt of police
(Headquarter) Sonitpur, Tezpur as Ext. 8.

In cross, she stated that in the report, she had not mentioned

the.details of procedure of examination.

19. PW 9 Sri Pradip Kr. Kakoti, the Investigating Officer, has
deposed that on 15-07-2016 on receipt of an FIR from the informant at about
9 p.m., the O/C, Missamari PS registered the case and on being entrusted
with the investigation of the case, he sent the victim first to Missamari PHC
and then to KCH, Tezpur for medical examination. He in presence of witnesses
vide seizure list, Ext. 6, seized the panty of the victim produced by the
informant on the very day, reportedly worn by the victim at the relevant time.
He also sent the seized panty to FSL, visited the place of occurrence,

prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence vide Ext. 9, recorded the

 
Page 8 of 22

statement of witnesses, got recorded the statement of the victim u/s 164
Cr.P.C., arrested the accused and on his transfer, O/C of Missamari PS Nurul
Hussain submitted the chargesheet against the accused Kumud Nirsing
(Satnami) u/s 8 of POCSO Act vide Ext. 10.

During cross, he stated that informant produced the panty of
the victim saying that at the time of incident, the victim wore the said panty
but when it was produced, the victim was not wearing the panty. He seized
the panty at the police station. He admitted that he had not sent any semen
of the accused to FSL for examination. He further stated that the, house of
Pranab Sharma and Sri Paresh Satnami are near to the place.of occurrence
but they were not examined as witnesses as he did not find*them. He further
stated that though he sent the victim on 16-07-16 for‘ecording statement u/s
164 Cr.P.C. but on that day her statement was notwecorded. Hence, she was
given in the custody of her mother and on'18*07-2016, her statement was

recorded.

20. PW 10, J. Sarmah, the then learned Sub-Divisional Judicial
Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur, deposed that on 18-07-2016 she recorded the
statement of the victim"in\presence of her mother as the victim was only 5
years old and aftérrecording the statement of the victim, the same was read
over to theavictim\where the victim put her signature . She proved her
signature in thesstatement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. as Ext. 2(4) and
relevant. Order dated 16-07-2016 and 18-07-2016 as Ext. 11 and 12
respectively.

During cross, she stated that she did not give any certificate
that the victim made her statement voluntarily.
21. PW 11, Nurul Hussain, another Investigating Officer, deposed
that on transfer of earlier I.0., he collected the FSL report and filed
chargesheet against the accused Kumud Kr. Narsing @ Kumud Kr. Satnami
u/s 8 of POCSO Act vide Ext.10.
22. Defence taking the plea of enmity regarding land, examined

one witness.

 
Page 9 of 22

DW1 Mohan Ch. Satnami, uncle of the accused, deposed that
on 16-07-2016 about 100/200 people attended the Shradha ceremony of his
sister-in-law (Bou) and he was also present there till 9 p.m. During that time
no incident took place near the Shradha place and on the next day he heard
that the accused was apprehended by police. According to him, a plot of land
belonging to the father of the accused was mortgaged to the son of his
brother (victim's father) and after the death of the accused’s father, when the
accused wanted to return the mortgage money to the mortgagee, the victim's
father instead of taking the money demanded the land “and forcefully
possessed the land belonging to the accused. Regarding ¢hisa“dispute arose
between the informant and the accused and thereafter victim’s mother

concocted this false case with intent to grab the land.

During cross, he stated that hexdid/not know if any incident
took place in the house of the informant. Hedid*not ask the informant about
the arrest of the accused and they also did not inform him about the incident
as the incident was shameful.¢He further stated that inspite of knowing the
fact of this case, he did not go toxthe house of the informant to know about
the actual incident. He further stated that he exactly did not know whose

Shradha ceremony, he,attended.

23. In this’case the evidence of the star witness of the case i.e.
the victim reveals=that after playing with her, when her friends returned home
and«she was also about to return home, her neighbour accused Kumud
coming.there, took her, to his house on his lap, made her lay upon a bed and
then\the accused ‘opening’ his pant as well as her panty, touched her private
part by his private part. At that time when her mother called her, the accused
gagged her mouth for which she could not respond but seeing her chappal in
front of the house of the accused, when her mother entered into his house,
saw the incident and then the accused fled away. PW1, the victim’s mother,
the most natural witness also corroborating the victim’s evidence, testified
that at 6.30 p.m. when she did not find her daughter who was playing in
front of her house, she searched for her and at that time noticing the chappal

of her daughter in front of the house of the accused, she called
Page 10 of 22

out for her daughter but not finding any response, she entered into his house
and found the accused touching the private part of the victim daughter by his
genital organ upon a bed but seeing her, the accused fled away and then the

victim narrated the incident.

24. PW 2 - the paternal aunt of the victim, PW 5 - the victim’s
cousin sister and PW 4 — the cousin brother of the accused himself also stated
that the informant reported to them that the accused took the victim to his
house on his lap, made her lay upon a bed and touched her private part by
his genital organ. Another witness PW 7 — the cousin brother of the victim in
the same tune deposed that the informant told him that\the accused taking
the victim on his lap to his house, committed misdeed on her upon a bed. PW
2, PW 5 and PW 7 also categorically stated that hearing about the incident
from the victim’s mother, when they asked“the ‘victim, she also narrated that

the accused touched her private part with his*sexual organ.

In this case, médical evidence shows that the victim was
examined on the very next day andsit does not suggestive of any injury on the
victim’s body or on her, private\part or about any recent sexual intercourse.
The evidence of the WictimNis-that the accused laid her upon bed and opening
her panty as well*as his\pant touched her private part by his penis. She does
not allege penetration. Her evidence that the accused touched her private part

by his penis. clearly shows that the accused committed sexual assault on her.

25. The panty of the victim was also seized by the Investigating
Officer. which was sent to FSL and presence of spermatozoa was detected in
the=panty. Regarding seizure, learned defence counsel Mr. Ansari pointed to
the discrepancy that as per version of the seizure witness PW 7, the uncle of
the victim, police seized the panty from the house of the informant whereas
the Investigating Officer said that he seized the panty at the police station
when the victim was not wearing the same. But the thing which remains
unrebutted is that police seized the panty on being produced by the informant
containing stains of suspected semen. The evidence of the victim’s mother
(PW1) is also that she had seen some white substance on the private part of

the victim and on her panty. PW 4 and PW 5 also categorically stated that

 
Page 11 of 22

they noticed some semen like white substance in the victim’s panty. In this
case, the FIR was lodged immediately after the occurrence at 9 p.m. of 15-07-
2016 and the panty of the victim was also seized on the very night at 9.45
p.m. It was sent to FSL and human spermatozoa was detected in the same.
Though the learned defence counsel argued that when the Investigating
Officer did not sent any semen of the accused to FSL, it cannot be said that
the semen sent to FSL belonged to the accused, but only for this reason, the
story cannot be thrown away over board which is otherwise established.
Finding semen in the seized panty of the victim confirm “to\the act of

commission of sexual assault with the victim.

26. The learned counsel appearing ‘for ‘the accused also
vehemently argued that as per evidence of the PWs), when at the alleged time
of incident, admittedly many persons attended\they Shradha ceremony, it is
not believable that such an incident ogcurredthere but on minute perusal of
the evidence on record, it reveals that the’Shradha ceremony was going in her
mother-in-law’s house which is*near to#her house. Victim’s evidence reveals
that her grand-mother’s house,vis ‘situated near the place of occurrence. Their
evidence indicates that the Shradha ceremony was held in a separate house.
Accused is the uncle’sssonof victim’s father. When such a relative took a girl
of 5 years on hisNap,.even if someone noticed, he may not suspect. Another
argument advanced by defence side is that as per evidence of the victim, at
the relevant time, other family members of the accused were present at home
and. inxsuch ‘circumstances, it is not possible for the accused to commit such
an‘offence but in the case in hand, the victim is too minor to suspect when he
was*with her within one room. Being an infant child of 5 years, she also might
not have the knowledge what was going on with her. Holding of Shradha
ceremony on the day of incident and existence of the accused at home were
also admitted by the accused in statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. The learned
defence counsel further pointed towards the discrepancy in the evidence of
PW 1 and the Investigating Officer (PW 9) regarding existence of residence of
Pranab Sarmah and Paresh Satnami near the place of occurrence but it is well
settled that difference in some minor detail, which does not otherwise affect

the case of the prosecution case, even if present, that itself would not prompt

 
Page 12 of 22

the court to reject the evidence on account of minor variation and
discrepancies. Learned defence counsel also argued that as per evidence of
the I.0. at first the victim was sent to Missamari PHC first which is not
supported by any other witnesses but there is no evidence including the I.O.
that she was examined at Missamari PHC and I found no force in the

argument.

27. Further, claiming the victim as tutored witness, the learned
counsel of defence pointed that as per evidence of the victim herself, she was
tutored by her father before giving statement u/s 164 Cr.PIC (Ext.2). The
learned defence counsel also argued that the victim was produced before the
Magistrate on 16-07-2016 but on that day her statement.was not recorded
and she was sent with her parents and only on 48-07-2016 her statement was
recorded and as such there is every possibilitysofwbeing tutored. On careful
perusal of the cross-examination of the’victim, itappears that she stated that
before giving statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. aSwwell as u/s 164 Cr.P.C., her mother
told her to speak what really happenede=and her father told her what is to be
stated before Magistrate. Her*evidence shows that her mother told her to say
what is actually happened andyher father asked her what is to be stated. Her
evidence does not clearly indicate that she is a tutored one. Moreover, before
recording statementeof the victim, to testify her when she was told that, she
was supposed“to be tutored by her mother, she clearly replied as “no” and in
deposition she made the same version as made u/s 161 as well as u/s 164
CreP.Gx, Evidence of the victim is found spontaneous and trustworthy without

inviting any suspicion of being tutored.

28. While arguing that the evidence of child witness is required to
be considered with care and caution and possibility of being tutored is
required to be ruled out, defence side relied on the case reported in 2003
Crl.L.J. 1262, (2012) 3 SCC 795, 2016(3) GLT 671. In those cases the
child were witnesses to the prosecution story, whereas in this case the child
witness is none other than but the victim of sexual assault. However, it is not
in doubt that a settled principle of law is that while appreciating testimony of

a child witness, the court must adopt a careful and cautious approach to

 
Page 13 of 22

ensure that the child is speaking the truth, voluntarily and is totally
uninfluenced of any external factor. It needs to be assumed that the child is
not tutored. But cases involving sexual molestation and assault, requires a
different approach. The Hon’ble Apex Court in the case of State of
Rajasthan Vs. Om Prakash, (2002) 5 SCC 745 laid down that “Child
rape cases are cases of perverse lust for sex where even innocent children are
not spared in pursuit of sexual pleasure. It is a crime against humanity. In
such cases, responsibility on the shoulders of the courts is more onerous so as
to provide proper legal protection to these children. Their physical and mental
immobility call for such protection. Children are the naturalfésource of our
country. They are the country’s future. Hope of tomorrew\rests on them. In
our country, a girl child is in a very vulnerable position.and one of the modes
of her exploitation is rape besides other modeS,of.sexual abuse. These factors
point towards a different approach requirechto.be adopted. It is necessary for
the courts to have a sensitive approach ‘when dealing with cases of child rape.
The effect of such a crime on théxmind of the child is likely to be life long. A
special safeguard has been provided for children in the Constitution of India in
Article 39.”

Here, Section 118 of the Evidence Act is required to be looked

into which reads as under :

“Who may testify. — All persons shall be competent to testify unless
the Court considers that they are prevented from understanding the questions
put\to=them, or from giving rational answers to those questions, by tender
years, extreme old age, disease, whether of body or mind, or any other cause

of the same kind.”

29. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare Vs. State of Maharashtra
(1997 (5) SCC 341), Hon’ble Supreme Court held that : (i) A child witness if
found competent to depose to the facts and reliable one, such evidence could
be the basis of conviction. (ii) Even in the absence of oath the evidence of a
child witness can be considered under section 118 of the Evidence Act
provided that such witness is able to understand the answers thereof. (iii) The

evidence of a child witness and credibility thereof would depend upon the

 
Page 14 of 22

circumstances of each case. (iv) The only precaution which the Court should
bear in mind while assessing the evidence of a child witness is that the
witness must be a reliable one and his/her demeanour must be like any other
competent witness and there is no likelihood of being tutored. (v) The
decision on the question whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence
primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices his manners, his apparent
possession or lack of intelligence, and said Judge may resort to any
examination which will tend to disclose his capacity and intelligence as well as
his understanding of the obligation of an oath. (vi) ThiS“precaution is
necessary because child witnesses are amenable to tutoring and‘often live in a
world of make beliefs. (vii) Though child witnesses are pliable and liable to be
influenced easily, shaped and moulded, but if after careful scrutiny of their
evidence, the Court comes to the conclusion that.there is an impress of truth
in it, there is no obstacle in the way of ‘accepting the evidence of a child

witness.

30. In this context, the. Apex Court in the case of State of

Himachal Pradesh v. Sanjay Kumar alias Sunny, (2017) 2 SCC 51,
held as under:

S31. Oy By now it is well settled that the testimony of a
victim in cases of ‘sexual offences is vital and unless there are compelling
reasons which neeessitate looking for corroboration of a statement, the courts
should\find, no difficulty to act on the testimony of the victim of a sexual
assault-alone to convict the accused. No doubt, her testimony has to inspire
confidence. Seeking corroboration to a statement before relying upon the
same as a rule, in such cases, would literally amount to adding insult to injury.
The deposition of the prosecutrix has, thus, to be taken as a whole. Needless
to reiterate that the victim of rape is not an accomplice and her evidence can
be acted upon without corroboration. She stands at a higher pedestal than an
injured witness does. If the court finds it difficult to accept her version, it may
seek corroboration from some evidence which lends assurance to her version.
To insist on corroboration, except in the rarest of rare cases, is to equate one

who is a victim of the lust of another with an accomplice to a crime and

 
Page 15 of 22

thereby insult womanhood. It would be adding insult to injury to tell a woman
that her claim of rape will not be believed unless it is corroborated in material
particulars, as in the case of an accomplice to a crime. Why should the
evidence of the girl or the woman who complains of rape or sexual
molestation be viewed with the aid of spectacles fitted with lenses tinged with
doubt, disbelief or suspicion? The plea about lack of corroboration has no
substance {See Bhupinder Sharma v. State of Himachal Pradesh, (2003) 8
SCC 551}. Notwithstanding this legal position, in the instant case, we even

find enough corroborative material as well, which is discussed™hereinabove.”

After going through Section 118 of the ‘Evidence Act and the
Judgments quoted above, it can be concluded. that testimony of a child
witness can be accepted if such evidence ‘is “reliable and free from any
influence. As discussed above, the child witness injthis case is none other than
the victim herself, she appears to be‘a‘witness of truth. I find nothing which

leads the victim to be tutored to embellish the version on material point.

31. Mr. Ansari,gthe learned counsel of the accused also argued
that oral evidence mustbeedirecttand as such hearsay evidence of the witness
in this case cannot™be taken into consideration. In this regard he placed
reliance on the fuling reported in 2011 Cr.L.J. 1844 and (1998) 2 GLR
334.

In the case reported in 2011 Cr.L.J. 1844, the informant
nowhere “stated that he disclosed about alleged robbery to any of the
witnesses and therefore the evidence of other witnesses cannot be taken into
consideration being not eye witnesses only the hearsay witnesses which was
not confirmed by the person from whom they allegedly heard about the
incident. In the other case i.e. (1998) 2 GLR, a case of murder, the

Medical Officer was not examined who conducted autopsy of the dead body.

32. To understand “hearsay’ evidence, it will be apposite to take
note of the decision of the Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Sukhar Vs.
State of U.P. and Balram Pd. Agarwal Vs. State of Bihar .

 
Page 16 of 22

The Apex Court in Sukhar Vs. State of U.P., (1999) 9 SCC 507
held that Section 6 of Evidence Act is an exception to the general rule
whereunder the hearsay evidence becomes admissible. But for bringing such
hearsay evidence within the purview of said Section, what is required to be
established is that it must be almost contemporaneous with the acts and there
should not be an interval which would allow fabrication. Also “the statements
sought to be admitted, therefore, as forming part of res gestae, must have
been made contemporaneously with the acts or immediately thereafter. The
aforesaid rule as it is stated in Wigmore’s Evidence Act reads thus.:

“Under the present exception (to hearsay) an utterance is by
hypothesis, offered as an assertion to evidence the fact asserted (for example
that a carbrake was set or not set), and the only_condition)is that it shall have
been made spontaneously, i.e. as the natural effusion of a state of
excitement. Now, this state of excitement may well continue to exist after the
exciting fact has ended. The declaration, therefore, may be admissible even
though subsequent to the occurrence, provided, it is near enough in time to

allow the assumption that the’exeiting\influence continued.”

33. In Balram Prasad Agrawal versus State of Bihar and
others, (1997).9 SCC 338, the Apex Court reiterated the principle laid
down in the case*ofss. D. Jain v. Management of State Bank of India, AIR
1982 SC 673% (4982) 1 SCC 143 wherein a Bench of three learned Judges in

paragraph,10°%of the Report has made the following observations :

“Zhe word 'hearsay' is used in various senses. Sometimes it means whatever
a‘person is heard to say; sometimes it means whatever a person declares on

information given by someone else. (See Stephen on Law of Evidence).

The Privy Council in the case of Subramaniam v. Public Prosecutor,
(1956) 1 WLR 965 observed:

Evidence of a statement made to a witness who is not himself called
as a witness may or may not be hearsay. It is hearsay and inadmissible when
the object of the evidence is to establish the truth of what is contained in the

statement. It is not hearsay and is admissible when it is proposed to establish
Page 17 of 22

by the evidence, not the truth of the statement but the fact that it was made.
The fact that it was made quite apart from its truth, is frequently relevant in
considering the mental, state and conduct thereafter of the witness or some

other persons in whose presence these statements are made.”

34. In this case also, as per evidence of PW 2, PW 5 and PW 7
immediately after the incident, the victim’s mother reported to them about the
incident and then on being asked the victim herself narrated them about the
incident and immediately after the occurrence at 6.30 p.m. «wictim’s mother
informed PW 4 about the incident. PW 2 and PW 5 also had\seen some white
substance in the panty of the victim. The victim’s mother (PW...) herself saw
the incident when seeing the chappal of the victim), entered into the house of
the accused. The evidence of the aforesaid witnesses, therefore cannot be said
to be hearsay.

35. Further learned counsel of defence also submitted that the
version of PWs before the Investigating “Officer and during trial varied on
material particulars, hence their evidence cannot be relied upon and placed
the ruling reported in (1995),.1 GLR 421 and (2010) 4 GLR 567. On
reading of the aforesaid ‘rulings, I find that the case reported in (1995) 1
GLR 421 relates.to a‘situation when PWs made different version before the
Investigating Officer“and during trial as to who assaulted the deceased and
two otherdnjured amongst the three accused persons and held that when the
testimonyxof the eye witnesses made improvement of grave magnitude from
theirstatement u/s 161 Cr.P.C., it is impossible to rely upon such eye
witnesses. But in this case, though there are some minor omissions but on a
Close and dispassionate scrutiny of the evidence of the victim shows that
during cross defence could elicit nothing tangible to discredit her version on
crucial aspect regarding taking her to the house of the accused on his lap and
then opening her panty touching her private part by his genital organ.

Probative value of her evidence remains unshaken throughout her cross.

36. Though the learned counsel relying the ruling reported in
(2010) GLR 445, argued that in the present case, all the witnesses being

 
Page 18 of 22

interested witnesses, it is unsafe to rely those witnesses, but in my opinion
only on ground of related witnesses, they cannot be discarded or rejected
which is otherwise believable. Moreover, all the witnesses of this case are
related to the informant as well as to the accused person being the accused is
none other than uncle’s son of the victim's father. It is a case of sexual assault
and the victim appears to be a witness of truth and not a witness of

imagination who had the capacity to narrate the things clearly.

37. Taking the plea of enmity, the defence examined his uncle
Mohan Chandra Satnami (DW 1) who deposed that a plot of Jand ofthe father
of the accused was mortgaged to the father of the. victim and when the
accused wanted to return the mortgaged money, victim’s father instead of
taking money, demanded the land and was possessing the land of the
accused and thereafter filed this concocted\case but it is quite unbelievable
that a mother for this reason would set up‘her minor daughter with a false
allegation of sexual assault against an innocent who is their relative. A mother
or father can not put reputationprestige and dignity of her/his daughter at

stake for such trivial ground byJlevelling false charges.

38. Furthersthough DW 1 stated that on the day of Shradha
ceremony of his.siSter-in-law (Bou) who is the mother-in-law of the informant
was held in the ‘house’ of informant and about 100/200 people attended the
Shradhagtilk nightwhere he was present till 9 p.m. and till then no incident
took,place‘near the Shradha but during cross he stated that he did not know
whosesShradha ceremony was held which he attended. He again stated that
when police visited the house of the informant in connection with this case, he
had not gone there inspite of Knowing the fact of the case and the informant
also did not inform him as the incident was shameful. His evidence clearly
shows that some untoward incident had occurred. Moreover as per evidence
of DW 1 the incident occurred on 16-07-2016 whereas the alleged incident is
of 15-07-2016. The learned defence counsel also relying the ruling reported in
2015 (2) GLT 71 and (2010) 3 SCC (Cri) 330 submitted that the defence
witnesses are entitled to equal treatment with those of prosecution, but in this

case the evidence of DW 1 casts a doubt about his presence at the Shradha

 
Page 19 of 22

ceremony on 15-07-2016 near the place of occurrence and nothing can be
derived from his evidence, rather his evidence points towards a shameful

incident.

39. In the light of the aforesaid discussions on factual and legal
aspects and in view of consistency found in the statement of the victim, her
mother and other prosecution witnesses I find no scope to reach to any other
hypothesis other than the guilt of the accused Kumud Kumar Sirsing @
Satnami. The evidence of the victim who is a little girl of 5 ‘years of age
inspires confidence of this court and I found no reason to disbelieve her. It
has been proved beyond all reasonable doubt that on the ‘unfortunate day i.e.
on 15-07-2016 in the evening time accused taking the victim, aged about 5
years to his house on his lap, made her lay upon bed*‘and opening his pant as
well as her panty, touched her private part‘by his ‘penis resulting emission of
semen and human semen was detécted\in“her panty. The prosecution
succeeded in establishing that the accused Kumud Kumar Nirsing committed
sexual assault on the victim whO‘is below 12 years of age and it comes within
the purview of definition of aggravated sexual assault u/s 9(m) of POCSO Act
punishable u/s 10 of POCSO™Act. Considering all, accused Kumud Kumar
Nirsing @ Satnami is ‘held\guilty of the charge u/s 10 of the POCSO Act and

convicted accordingly.

40. Tehave heard the accused Kumud Kumar Nirsing @ Satnami
on the*point of sentence. His statement is recorded where he stated that he is
a.dailyewage earner and is to look after his parents out of his meagre income
and ‘prayed for leniency. On the other hand, the learned Public Prosecutor
submitted that the crime being heinous, the accused should not be dealt with

leniency.

41. I gave my anxious consideration on the aspect of quantum of
sentence. Sentencing for any offence has a social goal, sentence is to be
imposed in respect of the offence and the manner in which the offence has
been committed. The purpose of imposition of sentence is based on the
principle that the accused must realise that the crime committed by him

created a concavity in the social goals.

 
Page 20 of 22

42. In Gopal Singh Vs. State of Uttarakhan 2013 (2)
SCALE 533, while dealing with the philosophy of just punishment which is
the collective cry of the society, the Apex Court has stated that “just
punishment would be dependent on the facts of the case and rationalized
judicial discretion. Neither the personal perception of a Judge nor self-adhered
moralistic vision nor hypothetical apprehensions should be allowed to have
any play. For every offence, a drastic measure cannot be thought of. Similarly,
an offender cannot be allowed to be treated with leniency solely on the
ground of discretion vested in a Court. The real requisite.issto weigh the
circumstances in which the crime has been committed and_othereconcomitant

factors.”

43. From the above observation of the ‘Apex Court, it reveals that
while dealing with sentencing, various .concepts;y namely, gravity of the
offence, manner of its execution, impact on the’Society, repercussions on the
victim and proportionality of punishment*have been emphasized upon in the
said cases. In the case in hand,*sexualeassault was committed on a 5 years

old girl, helpless and vulnerable both physically and psychologically.

44. Thoughall, sexual assaults on female children are not
reported and doe*not come to light yet there is an alarming and shocking
increase of sexual offences committed on children. This is due to the reason
that children aresignorant of sexual acts and are not able to offer resistance
and become easy prey for lusty brutes who display the unscrupulous, deceitful

andvinsidious art of luring female children and young girls.

45: In the instant case, the 5 years old girl, was supposed to spend
time in cheerfulness with her dignity. No sexual character is developed on the
victim. She understands nothing what the accused was doing with her. The
young girl, with afflux of time, would grow with memories of this painful
experience. The convict abused her childhood and sexually assaulted her. He
committed a serious offence against a minor and therefore, in my considered
view he does not deserve a lenient consideration.

46. Considering all aspects, I sentence the convict Kumud Kumar

Nirsing @ Satnami to undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for 7 (Seven) years and

 
Page 21 of 22

also to pay a fine of Rs. 10,000/- (Rupees ten thousand), in default to
undergo Rigorous Imprisonment for another 6 (six) months for the offence
punishable u/s 10 of POCSO Act. The period of detention already undergone
by the accused shall be set off against the terms of imprisonment as per
provision of section 428 of Cr.P.C. His bail bond stands cancelled and surety

be discharged.

47. Convict/accused Kumud Kumar Nirsing @ Satnami be sent to
District Jail, Sonitpur, Tezpur to serve the sentence.

Case is recommended for compensation of the victim as per
provision of Section 357 A of Cr.P.C. by District Legal \Services Authority,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

48. Let a free copy of the Judgment be furnished to the convict.

49. Also send a copy of the Judgment to the District Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur as per provision of section’365 Cr.P.C. and a copy to the
District Legal Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur

50. Given under my Hahd\and ‘Séal of this Court on this the 18" day
of March, 2019.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictatedand> corrected by me.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno.
Prosecution witnesses.

Defence witnesses.

PW 1
PW 2
PW 3
PW 4
PW 5
PW 6
PW 7
PW 8
. PW9
10. PW 10
11. PW 11

PN oe wh

DW 1

Exhibits.

Ext.
Ext.

Ext

Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.

Ext.

1
2

. 2(A),3,4 &5
respectively

6
7
8
9
10

Material Exhibit.

Material Ext. “2

Page 22 of 22

: Mother of the victim.

: Elder sister of the victim’s father.

: Victim

: Jharkhand Satnami

: Niece of the informant.

: Dr. A. Kour, M.O.

: cousin brother of the victim

: Smti R. Borah Handique, Scientific Officer.
: Sri Pradip Kr. Kakoti, I.O.

: Smti J. Sarmah, SDJM, Sonitpur, Tezpur
: Nurul Hussain, another 1.0.

: Uncle of the accused.

: FIR
: 164 Cr.P.C. statement of.the victim

: Medical, X-ray, vaginal smear reports and advice slips

: Seizurelist.

: FSL report.

: forwarding report of FSL
: Sketch map

: Chargesheet.

: seized panty.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
