   

Special (POCSO) Case No. 24/2018.
(Under Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.)

State
- Versus -
Sumon Uddin Barbhuiya x. seeee Accused.

PRESENT :- Shri D. Bhattacharjee,
Special Judge, Hailakandi.

A n i =
For the State :- Sri U.K. Das, Ld. Public Prosecutor.
For the accused person :- Sri A.H. Laskar, Ld. Advocate.

Dates of recording evidence :- 06.03.2019 & 28.05.2019.
Date of recording statement u/s 313, CrPC :- 01.06.2019.

Date of Argument :- 01.06.2019.
Date of Judgment :- 01.06.2019.
JUDGMENT
i. The prosecution case, in brief, is that on 11.10.2018 the

informant Rahim Uddin Laskar lodged an FIR with the O/c, Hailakandi Police
Station alleging that the victim is his niece and the accused Sumon Uddin
Barbhuiya assured her to provide job in his house and accordingly, on being
asked by the accused, on 11.10.2018 at about 4 PM the victim went to his house
and found the door of the house of the accused closed and when she started to
return back, suddenly, the accused appeared there and taking the advantage of
absence of other family members in the house, he forcefully dragged the victim
in his house and committed rape on her and thereafter, the accused drove her
out of his house by assaulting her physically.

Contd....P/2.
 

aie

2 On receipt of the ejahar, the same was registered as
Hailakandi Police Station Case No. 832/2018 under Sec. 4 of the POCSO
Act,2012 and accordingly, police started investigation of the case.

3s During investigation, police visited the place of
occurrence, recorded statements of witnesses, got the victim medically
examined, go her statement recorded by Magistrate and subsequently, on
completion of investigation having been found prima facie case, police laid the
charge sheet against the accused person Suman Uddin Barbhuiya under Sec. 4
of the POCSO Act,2012.

4. On appearance of accused person, copies of relevant
materials in terms of Sec. 207 of the CrPC were furnished to him.

5. After hearing the Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld.
Defence Counsel and after perusal of materials available on record, having found
sufficient grounds for presuming that the accused person has committed the
offence, the formal charge has been framed against the accused person Sumon
Uddin Barbhuiya under Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act. The charge so framed was
read over and explained to the accused person, to which he pleaded not guilty
and claimed to be tried. Hence, the trial.

6. In the instant case, the prosecution has examined 3 Nos.
of PWs including the victim and the informant of the case. Thereafter, on
submission of Ld. Public Prosecutor and the Ld. Defence Counsel, the prosecution
evidence was closed. The accused person was examined under Sec. 313, CrPC,
wherein he has denied the allegations levelled against him by the prosecution.
The defence did not adduce any evidence.

Ze Heard argument of both sides. Perused the entire materials
available on record.

Contd....P/3.
 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 24/2018.
=:

8. Whether the accused person on 11.10.2018 in the
Evening at about 4 PM in village Chandpur under Hailakandi PS committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim, as alleged and thereby committed an
offence under Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act?

D I ND DECI HEREOF :-
9. The PW. 1, the informant Rahim Uddin Laskar has
deposed that about 5 months back one day while he was in his work, his mother
asked him to come house and on his arrival in the house, his mother reported
him that the accused and his wife took his (PW.1) niece i.e. the victim to their
house and they scuffled with her and also did bad acts with her and thereafter
he lodged the FIR vide Ext. 1 and Exts. 1(1),1(2) and 1(3) are his signatures.

In cross examination, the witness has stated that he did

not have any talk with the victim before filing the FIR.
10. The PW. 2, the victim has deposed that informant is her
uncle and about 6/ 7 months back one day at about 4 PM, she was on the road
and then the accused met her and told her that he would engage her in the
household work as maid to the house of another person and accordingly, she
went to the house of accused with him but the wife of accused rebuked her and
then the accused caught her (the victim) hands and pushed her towards outside
the house and thereafter, her uncle Rahim Uddin lodged the FIR. During
investigation, police got her medically examined. Police also got her statement
recorded by Magistrate vide Ext. 2, wherein Ext. 2(1) is her signature.

In cross examination, the victim has stated that since the
wife of accused rebuked her, the accused dragged her towards outside as there
was every possibility of any untoward incident. It is further stated by the victim
that she made her statement before Magistrate on being tutored by his uncle and
grandmother and she has got no allegation against the accused as he did not
commit any bad act with her,

11. The PW. 3, Fajal Uddin Barbhuiya has stated that on the

Contd....P/4.
 

Special (POCSO) Case No. 24/2018,

was

relevant day, he was not in his home and thereafter, he heard that the family
members of the victim filed rape Case against the accused but he does not know
anything about the occurrence.

22. In the instant case, though in the FIR there is incriminating
materials against the accused but in the backdrop of the evidence adduced by
the witnesses, it is revealed that nothing has come out to rope the accused
Person with the guilt of the alleged offence. The Prime witness is the victim
herself and her evidence bears much Significance to Prove the alleged
commission of the crime, The victim in her evidence has unequivocally divulged
that on the relevant day in the evening she went to the house of the accused
person for the purpose of engaging herself as maid but the wife of accused
rebuked her and then the accused pushed her towards outside of the house as
there was Every possibility of any untoward incident. The victim has also
revealed that she has got no allegation against the accused as he did not commit
any bad act with her and she made her statement before Magistrate on being
influenced by her uncle and grandmother. So also the evidence of the informant
transpires that he did not have any prior conversation with the victim before
filing the FIR.

13. In view of the above discussion, it appears that none of
the Prosecution witnesses has been able to implicate the accused person with
the commission of the crime alleged, rather, the victim, who is the prime witness
of the case has given clean chit to the accused saying that she does not have
any allegation against the accused as he did not commit any bad act with her.
As such, I do not find it appropriate to entangle the accused person with the
guilt of commission of the crime alleged,

14, Accordingly, the accused person Summon Uddin
Barbhuiya is acquitted of the offence under Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act
and as such, he is set at liberty forthwith,

15. The bail bond of the accused person stands discharged.

Contd....P/5.
 

= Gs

16. Send a copy of this judgment to the District Magistrate,
Hailakandi.

17. The Special (POCSO) case is disposed of accordingly.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open Court

under the seal of this Court and on my signature on this the 1* day of June,
2019.

. ad

 

SPECIAL JUDGR

Dictated and corrected by me: HAILARANDI

 
 

ci 2018.

Appendix :-

Oral evidences :-

PW. 1, the informant Rahim Uddin Laskar.
PW. 2, the victim &

PW. 3, Fajal Uddin Barbhuiya.
Documentary evidences :-

Ext. 1- FIR.

Ext. 2- Statement of the victim recorded under Sec. 164, CrPC.

Defence did not adduce any evidence.

 

SPECIAL JUDG@S
HAILAKRANBM
