1
IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, BARPETA, ASSAM.

Special P.O.C.S.O. CASE NO. 54 OF 2016
Under Section 366(A)/344 I.P.C.

Present:- Smti. C. R. Goswami, A.J.S.,
Special Judge, Barpeta

State of Assam.

-versus-

Naburuddin ... Accused.

APPEARANCE
For the Prosecution : Mr. A. Kayem, learned P.P.
For the accused : Mr.M.Chakraborty, learned Advocate.
Evidence recorded on : 11-05-2017
Argument heard on : 13-06-2017 & 17-07-2017

Judgment delivered on : 17-07-2017.

UDGMENT

1. The prosecution case in brief, is that on 10-11-2016 one Sahidul
Islam lodged an FIR alleging that on 27-08-2016 at about 8.00
P.M.,accused Naburuddin and 6 others came to his house by a boat
and kidnapped his minor daughter(victim),aged about 14 years. He
came to know that the other accused persons named in the FIR
performed the marriage in between the victim and accused
Naburuddin in spite of knowing that the victim is a minor. Though he
requested the accused persons but they did not hand over the victim
to him. He requested the village Head-man also, but did not get any
relief. So he has filed this case.
2

2. On the basis of the F.I.R. police registered a case, started
investigation and after completion of investigation submitted charge
Sheet against accused Naburuddin U/S 366-A/344 |.P.C read with
section 4 of POCSO Act.
3. Accused person appeared before this court and faced trial. copies
are furnished to him. Charges were framed against the accused
persons U/S 366-A/344 read with section 4 of POCSO Act. Charges were
read over and clearly explained to the accused person to which he has
pleaded not guilty and claimed for trial.
4. In course of hearing the prosecution has examined as many as
five witnesses. The accused person is examined under section 313
Cr.P.C. He declines to adduce evidence.
5. Points for determination:-
(1) | Whether the accused person on 27-08-2016 at about 08.00 P.M.
at Siduni,Jania within the jurisdiction of Baghbar Police Station,District
Barpeta, kidnapped Sahnaj Parbin, the minor daughter of informant
Shahidul Islam from his house, with intent that she might be compelled
to marry him against her will or knowing to be likely that she might be
forced or seduced to _ illicit intercourse by means of criminal
intimidation or by any other method, to go from any place with intent
that she might be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse with any other
person ?
(2) | Whether the accused person on the same date,time and place
wrongfully confined Sahnaz Parbin for more than ten days ?

Decision and reasons thereof:
6. The allegation against the accused person is that on 17-08-2016
at about 8.00 PM., he kidnapped the victim who was aged about 10
years and confined her for more than 10 days. Accordingly the father of
the victim, Sahidul Islam lodged the FIR.
7. Said Sahidul Islam as PW1 has deposed that about 6/7 months
ago one night, at about 8.00 P.M. Naburuddin Ekabbar Ali,Saburuddin,
Samez Uddin,Komar Ali and Tukan Ali took away her by their boat
tighting her hands and feet. At that time the victim was aged about 14
3

years. He lodged the FIR and police recovered the victim from the
house of the accused. At the time of occurrence the victim was reading
at Class-X and he furnished the school certificate to the police. As per
the school certificate, the age of the victim was 14 years at the time of
occurrence.

In his cross examination he has admitted that the occurrence

took place on 27-4-2016 and he lodged the FIR on 10-11-2016. After
about 7 months of the occurrence he lodged the FIR, but he did not
mention the cause of delay in the FIR. Lalchand,Mohan Chand and
Malek Chand Dewani wanted to settle the matter amicaboly. He could
not remember the date of birth of the victim. He did not annex the
photo copy of the school certificate of the victim along with the FIR.
The victim is now in his house. Sajen,Gani,Lal Chand and Malek and
others are his neighbours. At the time of occurrence he was in the
house of Lal Chand. No hue and cry was made at the time of
occurrence. So he did not know about the occurrence. Nobody had
seen the taking of victim by the accused persons. He lodged the FIR
after 2 Y% months of the occurrence. After 15 days of the occurrence
police recorded her statement. He has denied that he did not state
before the I/O that the victim was taken by tighting her hands,legs and
mouth.
9. The victim Sahnaj Parbin as PW.2 has deposed that the
occurrence took place about 9 months ago. She and the accused love
each other. So when the accused came she left with him and stayed
with him for 3 months as husband and wife. Their marriage was
performed in the house of the accused. After 3 months her father took
her back with the help of the police. Now she is carrying 7 months
pregnancy. Police produced her before the Medical officer for
examination and before the Magistrate for recording her statement
under section 164 Cr.P.C.

In her cross examination she has stated that she and the victim
loved each other. The accused did not take her forcibly. She had gone
along with the accused at her own will with an intention to continue

their marital life. While police arrested the accused she filed an
application praying to release the accused. She has exhibited the said
application as Ext.A and her signature as Ext.A(1). The Affidavit which
is executed by her is exhibited as Ext.B and her signatures as
Ext.B(1),B(2) and B(3). She made the statement before the Magistrate
as tutored by her father and the police. She is stil willing to continue
her marital life with the accused person. The accused person is an
innocent.

10. The Medical officer who is examined as P.W.3 and as per her
opinion, her age was above 16 years and below 18 years and she did
not find the evidence of recent sexual intercourse or any injury on her
body.

11. One Maniruddin as P.W.4 has deposed that he does not know
anything about the occurrence.

12. One Akel Uddin as P.W.5 has deposed that he knows both the
accused and the victim and he heard that accused and the victim
already got married. They have already settled the matter and the
accused is now staying at his father-in-law's house.

13. From the above discussions of the evidences of the prosecution
witnesses, it is revealed that the alleged occurrence took place on 27-
8-2016, but in spite of having knowledge about the occurrence, the
informant filed the case on 10-11-2016 that means after about 2 %
months of the occurrence the informant lodged the FIR. According to
the informant at the time of occurrence he was in the house of his
neighbour Lal Chand and as no hue and cry occurred in his house he
could not know about the occurrence. But the victim has clearly stated
that she and the accused loved each other and she had gone along
with the accused at her own will as she wanted to continue her marital
life with the accused person. The accused person did not take her
forcibly. She has further stated that at the time of arrest of the accused
she filed an application to release him. She has exhibited the said
application as Ext.A and her signature as Ext.A(1). The said petition
was suspported by an Affidavit. She has exhibited the said Affidavit as
Ext.B and her signatures as_ Ext.B(1),B(2) and  B(3)
respectively. She is still willing to continue her marital life with the
accused person. The accused is not guilty. The other prosecution
witnesses do not know anything about the occurrence.
According to P.W.4 the accused and the victim already got
married and the accused is now staying along with the victim at her
paternal house.
14. Under such circumstances,it is clear that the prosecution has
failed to prove that the victim was forcibly taken by the accused
against her will and consent and she was confined by the accused.
Hence the prosecution has failed to bring home the guilt of the accused
person for any offence. Therefore the accused person is acquitted and
Set at liberty.
15. Bail bond executed by the accused person and the surety are
extended for another period of six months from the date of this
judgment under section 437-A Cr.P.C.
16. Send copy of this Judgment and order to the Hon'ble Gauhati
High Court and also to the District Magistrate, Barpeta under section
365 Cr.P.C.
Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 17" day of
July,2017.

Dictated & corrected by me.

Sd/- Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami) (Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta Special Judge, Barpeta
APPENDIX

(A)Prosecution Exhibits:
Ext.1 > FALR.
Ext.1(1)&
Ext.1(2) :Sig. of Sahidul Islam
Ext.2 ‘Statement

Ext.2(1) & 2(2):Sig. of Sahnaj Parbin

Ext.3 :Medical Report

Ext.3(1) ::Sig. of Dr.M. Devi

(B)Defence Exhibits:

Ext.A ‘Petition No.4069/16

Ext.A (1) :Sig. of Sahnaj Parbin

Ext.B ‘Affidavit

Ext.B(1),

Ext.B(2)&

Ext.B(3) :Sigs. of Sahnaj Parbin
(C)Exhibits produced by witnesses:Nil.
(D)Court Exhibits:Nil.

(E)Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 : Sahidul Islam
P.W.2 : Mst. Sahnaj Parbin
P.W.3 : Dr.Mamata Devi,Demonstrator,Deptt.of Forensic

Medicine,FAA Medical College Hospital,Barpeta
P.W.4 : Maniruddin

P.W.5 : Md. Akel Uddin

(F)Defence witnesses:Nil.
(G)Court witnesses:Nil.
Sd/-
(Smti. C. R. Goswami)
Special Judge, Barpeta
