IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL J UDGE :: SI VASAGAR
Present :- Sri S. K. Poddar, AJS

Special J udge,
Sivasagar.

Spl. (P) Case No. 36 of 2015, U/ S 8 of POCSO Act 2012
(Arising out of Bokota Nemuguri P.S. Case No. 56/2015)

State of Assam

-Vs-

Sri Josiya Tanti ........ee. Accused
APPEARANCE:
For the prosecution Mr. Srimanta Gogoi, Special P.P.
For the accused Mr. Sachin Saikia, Advocate
Date of framing Charge: 08.01.2016
Dates of Evidence ; 01.07.2016, 08.02.2017, 27.03.2017,

12.09.2017

Date of S/D 02.11.2017
Date of Argument 18.05.2018
Date of J udgment 31.05.2018

UDGMENT
1. Prosecution case, in brief, is that on 06.11.2015, informant Sri

Ranjit Dey lodged an FIR with O/C, Bokota Nemuguri P.S. alleging, inter alia,
that on 01.11.2015, while he went to Sepon market, his neighbour Sri J osiya
Tanti came to his residence with his wife for stay for the night. On his returning
home at 10.00 p.m., he saw his elder daughter victim 'M' (name withheld) was
weeping and on asking, victim told him that accused committed misdeed on her.
On asking the accused about the incident, without telling anything, he left the

house.

Spl (P) Case No. 36/2015 Page 1 of 8
2. On receipt of the FIR, Bokota Nemuguri P.S. Case No. 56/2015,
U/S 4 of POCSO Act, 2012 was registered and started investigation. During
investigation, victim was medically examined and recorded her statement in the
court U/S 164 Cr.P.C. Accused was arrested and produced him before this
court for judicial custody. Upon completion of investigation, charge sheet was

submitted against the accused for trial u/s 8 of Pocso Act.

3. Upon furnishing copy and after hearing both the sides, vide order
dated 08.01.2016, the then learned presiding officer has framed charge U/S 8
of POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused to which he pleaded not guilty and
claimed to stand trial. During trial, prosecution has examined eight witnesses
including the M.O. and 1.0.

4, On completion of the prosecution evidence, accused was
examined U/S 313 Cr.P.C. Accused declined to adduce evidence when he was
called upon to enter into defence. Defence case is of total denial and false

implication.

Di. | have heard argument of Id. Special P.P. Mr. Srimanta Gogoi and
Mr. Sachin Saikia, learned defence counsel and gone through the evidence on

record. | have considered the submission of both the sides.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION ARE -

6. (i) What was the age of the victim on the date of incident?

(li) Whether on 01.11.2015, accused committed sexual assault on the
victim M?

DECISION AND REASONS THEREOF :

7. PW - 1 the victim M in her evidence deposed that she was aged
about 9 (nine) years and a student of Class-II1. Accused is known to her being
a neighbour who used to visit her residence. One day, after coming to her
house for stay, accused opened her pant and gagged her mouth. She informed
the matter to her father who in turn informed the incident to police. Police took

her to Doctor and also took her to Court where she gave her statement. In her

Spl (P) Case No. 36/2015 Page 2 of 8
cross, she deposed that at her residence there was one room. Her father sleeps
in one bed and she along with her younger sister used to sleep in another bed.
Her brother used to sleep on the ground. On the day of incident, her brother
was sleeping on the ground and she along with her younger sister were
Sleeping on the bed. On that day of the incident, accused came to her
residence with his wife and child and slept in another room of the house. There
was a door between the two rooms and only after opening the door, one can

enter into their room. She denied to have deposed falsely.

8. PW-2 Sri Ranjit Dey, father of the victim in his evidence deposed
that on the day of incident accused came to his residence with his wife for stay
for the night. On his returning home at 10 PM, his daughter Mainee told him
that accused has committed misdeed with her. On this, accused and his wife
left his house. He informed the matter to Gaonburah and VDP and thereafter
lodged the FIR vide Exbt. 1. In his cross examination, he admitted that he
informed the matter to Gaonburah and VDP on the next day. FIR was lodged
after five days. The accused and his wife were staying in his house since last 15
days in a different room. He denied defence suggestion that the accused with
his wife used to reside on the other part of their quarter and to evict him from

the same, he filed this false case.

9. PW-3 Sri Nakul Tanti in his evidence deposed that at the time of
incident, victim M was aged about 10 to 11 years. He further deposed that on
one Monday, he was reported by Meena Dey and her sister that accused J usoya
Tanti committed misdeed with victim M while she was sleeping. On this, he
informed the matter to police. In his cross examination, he denied that while
giving statement to police, he has not stated regarding getting information

from Rina and Meena, sister of Ranjit Dey.

10. PW 4 Dr. Pranab Kumar Dutta in his evidence deposed that on
06.11.2015, he examined the victim M in connection with Bokota Nemuguri P.S.

Case No. 56/2015 and upon examination, he is of the opinion that the victim

Spl (P) Case No. 36/2015 Page 3 of 8
was aged above 8 years but below 12 years and there was no sign of assault or

sexual intercourse in her person. He proved his report as Exbt.2.

11. PW-5 Sri Atu Sarma in his evidence deposed that he has no
personal knowledge of any incident with victim. From villagers, he came to
know that accused has committed rape on victim M. He has not asked the
victim about the incident.

12. PW-6 Sri Sanjay Tanti in his evidence deposed that on the day of
incident, while he went to the residence of his brother near to the accused, he
saw that informant Ranjit Dey was physically assaulting the accused. On this,
he restrained him and rescued the accused. He has not asked Ranjit as to why
he has assaulting the accused. Subsequently from villagers, he came to know
that accused has committed misdeed on victim M. In his cross examination he
Stated that he has no personal knowledge of any incident with victim M. He has

not asked the victim about the incident.

13. PW-7 Smt. Meena Dey in her evidence deposed that on the next
day of incident, while she went to the residence of victim, she saw her weeping.
On asking, victim M told her that on the previous night while she was sleeping,
accused J asuya ride on her body and committed misdeed on her. She also told
her that accused gagged her mouth. On knowing this, she asked Ranjit who in
turn told her that he has not informed the matter to others. On this, she
informed the matter to VDP and Ranjit went to Gaonburah. On the next day,
She along with Ranjit Dey went to PS and Ranjit lodged the FIR. In her cross
examination she stated that informant Rajit Dey is her brother. She denied that
while giving statement to police she has not stated that “On the next day of
incident, while she went to the residence of victim, she saw her weeping. On
asking, victim M told her that on the previous night while she was sleeping,
accused J asuya ride on her body and committed misdeed on her, that she also
told her that accused gagged her mouth, that she informed the matter to VDP

and Ranjit went to Gaonburah and that she along with Ranjit Dey went to PS

Spl (P) Case No. 36/2015 Page 4 of 8
and Ranjit lodged the FIR.” She denied that victim did not tell her anything
about the incident. She denied that she is deposing falsely. Ranjit has three

daughters and one son. Son is aged about 12 years.

14. PW-8 SI Parth Pratim Singkon in his evidence deposed that on
06.11.2015, he received one written FIR from Sri Ranjit Dey. During
investigation, victim was sent for medical examination and also sent to Court
for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On the same day, he went to the
place of occurrence i.e. residence of informant and drawn a sketch map of the
place of occurrence vide Exbt. 3. He apprehended the FIR named accused Sri
Jasoya Tanti on 27.11.2015. During investigation, he has collected the medical
report and statement given by victim in Court. Exbt. 4 is the statement of the
victim given in Court. On completion of investigation, he has submitted charge
sheet against the accused u/s 12 of POCSO Act. Exbt. 5 is the charge sheet. In
his cross examination, PW 8 deposed that though the victim in her 164 Cr.P.C.
Statement has stated about presence of her elder brother in the room, he has
not examined the said brother as witness. He has not collected any age proof
document of the victim. While giving statement to police, witness Meena Dey
has not stated that “On the next day of incident, while she went to the
residence of victim, she saw her weeping. On asking, victim M told her that on
the previous night while she was sleeping, accused J asuya ride on her body and
committed misdeed on her, that she also told her that accused gagged her
mouth, that she informed the matter to VDP and Ranjit went to Gaonburah
and that she along with Ranjit Dey went to PS and Ranjit lodged the FIR.”
Witness Nakul Tanti in his statement did not state before him that Meena Dey
and her sister has informed him about the incident of misdeed by accused. He
Stated before him that Ranjit Dey has informed the matter to him. As per FIR
the incident took place on 01.11.2015 and the FIR was received on 06.11.2015.
No explanation was given in the FIR as to cause of delay. He denied that he

has not investigated the case properly.

15. Point No. L: So far age of the victim is concerned, while adducing

Spl (P) Case No. 36/2015 Page 5 of 8
evidence on 01.07.2016, the victim claimed her age as 9 (nine) years. P.W. 5
has stated that on the date of incident, victim was aged about 10-11 years.
P.W.4, the M.O. in his evidence stated that upon examination he is of the
opinion that victim was aged above 8 (eight) years but below 12 years of age.
The 1.0. (P.W.8) in his cross examination admitted that during investigation he
has not collected any document regarding age of the victim. The above
evidence on age of the victim as stated by the victim got due support from the
evidence of M.O. Defence has not challenged the age during cross examination
of the victim or other witnesses. As such, it can safely be held that on the date

of alleged occurrence, the victim was aged about 9 (nine) years.

16. Point No. II: So far charge of sexual assault is concerned, from
the evidence of PW 1, the victim it appears that on the date of incident accused
came to her house, gagged her mouth and opened her pant. However in her
cross examination she admitted that she used to sleep in the room with her
sister on a bed and her brother was sleeping on the floor. At the time of
incident, accused was sleeping in a different room with his wife and children.
There was a door between the two rooms which was closed from inside and
only on opening of the said door, one can enter into her room. P.W. 2 also
deposed that on returning home, victim reported him about committing
misdeed by the accused. P.W. 2 did not detail as to how the misdeed was
committed. In his cross, he admitted that FIR was lodged after five days.
Accused along with his wife was in his house for last 15 days and used to sleep
in different room. He denied the defence suggestion that accused used to
reside in the separate part of the quarter and for evicting him he filed this false
case. From the evidence of P.W. 3 it appears that he is a hearsay witness and
one Meena Dey and her sister reported him about the incident of misdeed by
the accused while victim was sleeping. P.W. 4, the M.O. did not find any mark
of injury. P.W. 5 and P.W. 6 are also hearsay witnesses who did not even
inquire about the incident from the victim. P.W. 7, the sister of the informant in

her evidence exaggerated the fact by saying that while victim was sleeping,

Spl (P) Case No. 36/2015 Page 6 of 8
accused ride on her body and committed misdeed on her. Though she denied in
her cross examination to have not made such statement before police, but the
1.0. (P.W.8) has confirmed. Thus, from the above, it appears that the victim
has simply stated regarding gagging of her mouth and attempt to open her
pant by the accused. But from her cross examination it reveals that she used
to sleep in the room with her sister and brother and by locking the door from
inside, as such there is no possibility of entering the said room without opening
the door. No allegation was brought against the accused that he forcibly
entered the house by breaking the door. The evidence of the victim did not get
any corroboration. Moreover lodging of the FIR after five days creates
sufficient doubt about the genuineness of the alleged incident more particluerly
when fact of residing of the accused on the part of the house for 15 days was
Suppressed in the FIR. Prosecution has failed to bring the sister and brother of
the victim to show that any such incident in fact happened. In view of inherent
contradictions amongst the prosecution witnesses, | am of the opinion that
presumption U/S 29 of POCSO Act 2012 cannot be invoked in this case.

17. Considering all above, | am of the opinion that prosecution has
failed to prove the ingredients of offence U/S 8 of POCSO Act against the
accused Sri J osiya Tanti. As such, accused Sri J osiya Tanti is acquitted from the
charges U/S 8 of POCSO Act, 2012 and set at liberty forthwith.

18. Bail bond executed by the accused and his surety stand extended
for another six months from today U/S 437-A Cr.P.C.

19. Considering the nature of the case, the matter is not referred to
DLSA for granting compensation U/S 357 (A) Cr.P.C.

20. Send a copy of the judgment to learned District Magistrate,
Sivasagar U/S 365 Cr.P.C.

21. Judgment is pronounced in open court. The case is disposed of on

contest.

Spl (P) Case No. 36/2015 Page 7 of 8
Given under my hand & Seal of this Court on this the, 31% day of

May 2018 Sivasagar.

1.

2.

3.

4.

Special J udge
Sivasagar

APPENDIX

Prosecution witnesses :

P.W.1- (Victim 'M’)

P.W.2- Sri Ranjit Dey (Informant)
P.W.3- Sri Nakul Tanti

P.W.4- Dr. Pranab Kr. Dutta (M.O.)
P.W.5- Sri Atu Sarma

P.W.6- Sri Sanjay Tanti

P.W.7- Smt. Meena Dey

P.W.8- SI Partha Pratim Singkon (1.0.)

Defence witnesses” - None
Court witnesses - None
Exhibits by prosecution -

 

Exbt.1- FIR

Exbt.2 - Medical examination report

Exbt.3 - Sketch map

Exbt.4 - 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim 'M'
Exbt.5 - Charge-Sheet

Special J udge,
Sivasagar:

Spl (P) Case No. 36/2015 Page 8 of 8
