Page 1 of 29

THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPL(POCSO) CASE NO 34 of 2016

(Under Section 6 of POCSO Act, arising out of G.R. Case No

Present

Prosecutor
-Vs-

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence +

Date of examination of
accused u/s 3143 Cr.P.C

Date of. Argument
Date of sentence hearing

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution:

Counsel for Accused

2899 of 2016)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur

State of Assam

Sri Bablu Sahani @.Babul Sahani
Son of Late Lakshman Sahani,
Resident of Katonibari

Police Station — Biswanath Chariali
Dist :- “Sonitpur, Assam.

08/02/2017

22/02/2017, 22/03/2017, 26/04/2017,
16/08/2017 & 30/08/2017

10/01/2018

11/05/2018
25/05/2018
25/05/2018

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Special Public prosecutor, Sonitpur

Mr. Putul Borah, Learned Legal Aid Counsel.

 
Page 2 of 29

JUDGMENT.

1. In this case accused Sri Bablu Sahani @ Babul Sahani is put for
trial for allegation of charge under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on 04-
09-2016 the minor granddaughter of the informant Miss Anami Devi was
kidnapped from the “Haritalika Puja sthali” by some miscreant and
committed misdeed to her at the side of the River Brahmaputra which he
came to know. Accordingly, the villagers of Hojaigaon searched the victim
girl vigorously. After recovery of the victim girl from the side of the river
Brahmaputra, she disclosed that she can identify the miscreant, who had
sexually assaulted her. Hence, this prosecution case. The FIR was filed by
Sri Nil Bahadur Kharka before the O/C of Thelamara Police Station on 04-
09-2016.

3. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the Officer-In-Charge of
Thelamara Police Station registered avcase being Thelamara P.S. Case No
73/16, under section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012 and the O/C himself
investigate the case. After completion of usual investigation, the O/C
Thelamara Police Station. sent up the accused for trial by filing charge
sheet u/s 4 of the POCSO Act against the accused Sri Bablu Sahani @
Babul Sahani-.

4. On.being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing
both, parties, charge framed under section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012
against the accused Sri Bablu Sahani @ Babul Sahani and particulars of
the charge was read over and explained to the accused to which he

pleads not guilty and claims to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as 15
(fifteen) numbers of witnesses. After completion of prosecution
evidence, accused was examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations made
against the accused and evidence appears against the accused are put
before him for explanation where he denied the evidence. To buttress the

defence, the accused declined to give defence evidence.

 
Page 3 of 29

6. I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocate of
both the parties.

7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether the accused person on 04-09-2016 at
village Hojaigaon, bank of River Brahmaputra under
Thelamara PS committed penetrative sexual assault on
the victim Miss "X” (5 years) and thereby committed_an
offence punishable under section 6 of the Protection of
Child from Sexual Offences Act?

REASONS, DECISIONS AND REASON FOR DECISION.

 

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence
on record.
9. PW 1, Dr. Geetumoni Sonowal, stated that on 06-09-2016 she

was working as Medical & Health Officer (Casualty) in the Tezpur Medical
College & Hospital and on that.day at about 12.07 p.m. she has
examined Anami Devi, 5 years, D/O Sri Yubraj Kharka of Hojaigaon PS
Thelamara, in reference to Thelmara PS GDE NO. 75 dated 04-09-2016
on being escorted‘ and identified by Woman police constable A. Begum.
She was examined in presence of one Poli Das. Consent for examination
taken from “her, father Yubraj Kharka. On examination, found the
following:

Identification mark — a black mole of pin head size present over
right shoulder.

Case history- according to father of alleged victim the person
took her near river side and sexually assaulted at around 6 p.m. of 04-09-
16 at Hojaigaon.

Height — 103 cm., Weight — 16 Kg, Chest — 56 cm, abdomen —
55 cm, Teeth — temporary 20 permanent 0. Space for teeth — nil. Hairs —
scalp hair present blackish in colour about 15 cm length. Auxillary — nil,
pubic — nil. Breast — child type. Menstrual history — menarche not

attained.

 
Page 4 of 29

Genital organs developed. Labia majora healthy. Labia minora —
one superfacial tear over labia minora in the lower part, size about .5 cm
x .1 cm x mucosal deep. Margins are reddish in colour and swollen.
Hymen — intact. Vaginal orifice. Narrow not admits tip of little finger.
Vaginal canal cannot be examined. Cervix, uterus cannot be
examined.Evidence of V.D. not detected clinically. Vaginal swab collected
from vaginal introitus. Injury on the body not detected. Wearing
garments — evidence of struggle not detected. Evidence of stain. not
detected.

Mental condition at the time of examination — conscious and

oriented, cooperative. Intelligence and memory — normal. Gait.— normal.

Radiological investigation:
Epiphysis of lower ends of radius haS.appeared not fused with
parent bone.

Epiphysis of ulna not appeared.

Three carpal bone appeared:

Shoulder joint-

Epiphysis of upper end of humorous not fused with parent bone.

Epiphysis around elbow joint are in process of fusion.

Epiphysis of iliac crest has not appeared.

Result :

Qn examination of vaginal swab spermotozoa not detected.
Opinion:

On the basis of physical examination, radiological and laboratory
investigation, she opined that evidence of recent sexual intercourse not
seen. Injury present on the private parts (labia minora) as described
above is caused by blunt object.

Age of injury — 24 to 48 hours. Her age is about above 3 and

below 5 years.

Ext. 1 is the Medical Report and Ext. 1 (1) to 1(3) are her

signatures.

 
Page 5 of 29

In cross-examination, the doctor admitted that she has
mentioned skiagram Number of the X-ray in the report. Ext. 1 is original

report. Such type of injury may be caused by any blunt object.

10. PW 2, Sri Nil Bahadur Kharka, complainant and the
grandfather of the victim, has stated that he knows the accused Babul
Sahani. At the time of occurrence, victim was only 4 years 7 months. On
04-09-2016 Haritorika Brata was celebrated under a Peepal tree near
Hojaigaon primary school. To enjoy the said celebration his_ victim
granddaughter went there along with her mother. At about 6.30 p.m. his
grand daughter was found missing. They have vigorously searched her in
their villages. They have also searched her towards the*bank of the river
where “Bisharjan” was done. But did not find her there. Then they
searched her towards western side of the Brahmaputra River. They found
the victim at the side of the river Brahmaputra where she was standing.
On being asked his granddaughter, she told him that accused took her
from said Puja Pandal luring to give a chocolate. Then the accused took
her towards the side of western. side of River Brahmaputra. Accused
threatened her not to shout and then accused put his penis into her
vagina and then to_her mouth. The victim also complained him that she
has suffering pain in.her private parts and neck. His granddaughter told
him that she can_be identified the person. On that day, he has filed the
ejahar before\the O/C Thelamara PS. The ejahar was written by VDP
Secretary Chandra Bahadur according to his instruction. After writing the
ejahar, the content of the ejahar was read over to him and on his
satisfaction he put signature thereon. Ext. 2 is the ejahar and Ext. 2(1) is

his signature.

Though he has been exposed to long cross examination, except
giving many suggestions, the evidence that at about 6.30 PM his victim
grand daughter was missing and on vigorous search the victim was
recovered from the side of the river Bhahmaputra, on making enquiry, the
victim told him that accused took her towards the western side of the

river Brahmaputra with lure of giving chocolate, where accused

 
Page 6 of 29

;threatened her not to shout and then accused put his penis into her

vagina and then to her mouth has remained unchallenged.

11. PW 3, Smti Rinkimoni Devi, who is the mother of the victim
girl, has stated that she knows the accused Babul Sahani who resides in
the house of his father-in-law. On 04-09-2016 Haritorika Brata was
celebrated under a Peepal tree near Hojaigaon primary school. At the
time of occurrence, victim’s age was only 4 years 7/8 months. To enjoy
the said celebration she went there at about 3 p.m. along with her
daughter. Her daughter along with other children including the.kid' of the
accused were playing there. Accused was sitting in a chair.along with his
baby. After completion of puja and distributing Prasadyall,of a sudden
electricity was shut down and almost darkness set\in..But her daughter
was found missing. She started to crying. Then,the-local public including
her husband and father-in-law recovered her daughter from the side of
the River Brahmaputra. The girl was handed over to her. Her victim girl
told her that accused inserted his.penis into her private parts and mouth.
By removing her clothes, she has noticed slight reddish on her private
parts. The local people suspected the accused in involving in the aforesaid
offence. On the very..day her victim daughter was taken to Thelamara
Police station. At the police station her victim daughter identified the

accused.

Though she has been exposed to long cross examination, except
giving many suggestion the evidence as to at the evening time her victim
daughter was missing from Puja Mandap and on vigorous search the
victim was recovered from the side of the river Brahmaputra, the victim
told her that accused inserted his penis into her private parts and mouth

has remained same.

12. PW 4, Sri Mohan Jadav, stated that he knows the accused
who resides in the house of his father-in-law. He also knows the victim.
The incident took place in the year 2016 on the day of Teez festival. The
festival was celebrated under a Peepal tree near Hojaigaon primary school

in front of his house. When he was at home at about 6.30 p.m., he came

 
Page 7 of 29

to know from the aunty of the victim that their niece was missing. Then
he along with other villagers went to search the victim to the river bank of
the Brahmaputra. They have also searched her towards the bank of the
river where “Bisharjan” was done. At the site of the Brahmaputra in the
western side near a cremation ground they noticed the victim girl was
standing there alone and they recovered her. On being asked, she
reported to her father that accused has taken her with a lure to give
chocolate and then she was forced to take towards river site. The victim
stated to her mother that the accused has put his penis into her vagina
and then to her mouth. On removing her clothes by her father they
noticed a swelling on her private parts. Since the day of incident, accused

was absconded from their village.

In cross-examination, he admitted that the police interrogated

him specifically on the point of place of recovery of the victim.

13. PW 5, Sri Mitra Sharma, stated that he knows the accused
Babul Sahani. He also knows. the Victim. The incident took place 04-09
2016 at about 6/6.30 p.m: On the day there was a Teez festival. The
festival was celebrated«under a Peepal tree near Hojaigaon primary school
in front of his house. The Puja was commenced at about 3 O’ clock in the
evening. During,Puja he went there. The people were busy in performing
puja. Children were playing. During that time he has noticed the accused
sitting,inva chair and also saw the victim girl near the accused. At about 6
p.mathe victim was missing. Local public came to his shop in search the
missing girl. Then he along with other villagers and guardian of the victim
girl went to search the victim to the river bank of Brahmaputra. Then they
noticed a girl standing alone near the cremation ground at the site of
Brahmaputra. The victim girl was handed over to her father. On being
enquired, the victim stated that the person who has taken her is known to
her. She was taken by that person with a lure of giving chocolate. The
victim stated that the accused has put his penis into her vagina and then

to her mouth. Immediately after reporting the matter by the girl they

 
Page 8 of 29

searched the accused but he was found absconded. Accused resides in his

father-in-law’s house Budhu Sahani.

14, PW 6, victim Miss X, who was examined before the court after
making proper enquiry to test as to her capacity of understanding and
rationality, stated that accused enticing her with a lure of giving chocolate
took her to the side of the river. Accused touched her mouth and private
parts with his male sexual organ as a result she sustained pain and. it
become whitish. Accused threatened her that ghost has flashed light.
Thereafter, the accused left the place stating that he feels “natur’s call.
Prior to that while she was crying, accused threatened her to cut.
Identifying the accused in the court, she stated that the bald man present
in the dock is the said accused. Many villagers along’ with her father
rescued her and she narrated the whole incident to-her father and other
people. Thereafter, her parents noticed reddish on her private part. She
was taken to the doctor. Thereafter, her statement was recorded through

the learned Magistrate.

Though, she has been, exposed to long cross-examination except
giving many suggestions, the)evidence as to accused enticing her with a
lure of giving chocolate took her to the side of the river, touched her
mouth and private parts with his male sexual organ as a result she
sustained pain and it become whitish, accused threatened her that ghost
has flashed‘light and thereafter, the accused left the place stating that he
went, to ‘toilet, while she was crying, accused threatened her to cut,

Identified the accused in the court has remained unchallenged.

15. PW 7, Sri Jubraj Kharka, stated that he knows the accused
Babul Sahani. Victim Devi is his daughter. The incident took place 04-09-
2016. At the time of the occurrence, the age of his daughter was 4 years.
On that day, he was on duty posted at Rangapara. After completion of
duty he went to his own house situated at Hojaigaon. On that day in their
village there was a Haritalika puja near Hojaigaon primary school under
one peeple tree. On the said puja his wife along with his four years old

daughter went to attend the Puja. At about 6.30 p.m. after completion of

 
Page 9 of 29

Puja his wife found missing of their minor daughter. Then they vigorously
searched the minor daughter in and around the village. Thereafter he
along with relatives and other villagers went to the bank of the
Brahmaputra where he noticed his minor daughter standing alone near
the cremation ground. His daughter informed him that she was taken by
one known person and thereafter said person inserted his penis to her
private parts and also inserted his penis into her mouth. Then he took her

to Thelamara Police station.

Though she has been exposed to long cross examination ‘except
giving many suggestions, the evidence as to at about 6,30. PM jhis minor
daughter was missing from Puja Mandap, while he and villagers vigorously
search, they recovered her daughter from. the side of the river
Brahmaputra on enquiry the victim told them that accused took her to the
side of the Brahmaputra and he inserted shis penis into her private part

and also inserted his penis on her mouth remained unchallenged.

16. PW 8, Sri Hari Sarmah, stated that he knows the accused.
Victim is his neighbour. The incident took place on 04-09-2016. On that
day in their village there’is a “Haritalika puja” near Hojaigaon primary
school under a peeple tree. The said puja started from 3.p.m and
completed 6.30.p.m. After completion of puja, at about 6.30 p.m. they
came to know that the victim was missing. Then they searched the victim
in an_around_the village. Then searched the victim towards the bank of
river.Brahmaputra where they found the victim standing alone near the
cremation ground. He heard from the mouth of victim while she reported
to other persons that at about 6.30 p.m. there was a Sun set, one black
complexion person taken her with a lure of giving chocolate and the said
person inserted his penis to her private parts and also inserted his penis

into her mouth.

Though he has been exposed to long cross-examination, except
giving many suggestions, the evidence as to at about 6.30 PM the victim
was found mission, on vigorous search the victim was recovered from the

side of the Brahmaputra, the victim reported that after sun set a black

 
Page 10 of 29

complexion person took her with lure of given chocolate, the said person

inserted his penis into her private part and mouth remained unchallenged.

17. PW 9, Sri Ramlal Sahani, stated that he knows the accused.
Victim is his neighbour. The incident took place about 10 months ago. A
few days back the said accused shifted from their village. Police after
tracking Mobile, arrested the accused from Jahajghat of Tezpur. He has
also accompanied the police. He was wanted by police with an allegation

of committing rape to a minor girl.

18. PW 10, Sri Chiraj Chetry , stated that he went to police
station along with Brij Kishor Sahani. When police taking Ramlal he heard
that accused committed some misdeed (Badmasi). Police recovered the

accused after mobile tracking.

19. PW 11, Sri Brij Kishor Sahani,stated that police searched the
accused Babul Sahani but did not find him and taken away Ramlal about

8/9 months ago.

20. PW 12, Sri Raju Boro, stated that the incident took place on
04-09-16. On that day in their village a Pooja was held which was
observed by Nepali community of their village. Accordingly, Hari Talikar
festival was performed by disciple particularly Nepali community. The
victim was missing from the pooja mandap. During that time the age of
the victim was about 5 years. They have vigorously searched the victim.
They, have searched her for about three hours. At last they have
recovered the said girl from the side of a stream of Brahmaputra. They
have recovered the girl and brought her to her house. Then, she was
taken to PS. On questioned her by public, she stated that the person who
kidnapped her is known to her. The victim also reported that the said
person inserted his male organ into her mouth and her private parts. The
person who had kidnapped the victim is the said person who is present in
the dock. Then the victim was taken to hospital for medical examination.

The victim was also taken to the court to record her statement.

 
Page 11 of 29

In cross-examination, he admitted that the accused was
travelling in his vehicle before two months of incident. At the place where

the girl was recovered, they have seen only the victim girl.

21. PW 13, Mrs. Meenakshi Sarmah, has stated that on 08-09-
2016 he was posted as a Judicial Magistrate,1* class, Sonitpur at Tezpur.
On that day, in reference to Thelamara pS Case No. 73/16 u/s 6 of the
POCSO Act she recorded the statement of one victim Miss X (5 years.old),
D/O Yubraj Kharka of Hojaigaon under Thelamara PS. As the victim was
only 5 years minor therefore, she had made an enquiry by putting some
questions to her and on answered, she has statisfied as to her intelligence
and rational answer and thereafter the statement ofthe victim was
recorded in presence of her father. The victim was escorted and identified
by Must Ainub Begum, WPC 02 of Thelamara ‘PS.»She has recorded the
statement of the victim in the court chamber. The victim made her
statement voluntarily. The victim understands and speaks only Nepali
Language. Since the language is. not familiar to her so she called the
interpreter Mrs. Hima Poudal, a Woman constable of the learned
Addl.CJM, Sonitpur, Tezpur to interpret the language of the victim. After
recording her statement,she’has read over to her and on acceptance she
had stated yes. She had also administered the oath of the interpreter Mrs.
Hima Poudal: Ext. 2 A is the statement of the said victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
and Ext.-2.A (1) is her signature. Ext. 3 is the order dated 08-09-2016 of
the learned CJM, Sonitpur, Tezpur and Ext. 3(1) is the signature of Sri
Kaushik Kr. Sharma, learned Addl. CJM, Sonitpur, Tezpur. In the same
dated Ext. 3(2) is the signature of Mr. Rashmita Das, the learned CJM,
Sonitpur, Tezpur. Ext. 3(3) is her order dated 08-09-2016 and Ext. 3(4) is

her signature.

22. PW 14, Sri Prasanna Saharia, stated that on 04-09-2016 he
was posted as i/c of OC, Thelamara Police Station. On that day an ejahar
was filed by one Nil Bahadur Kharka before the Thelamar PS. On receipt
of the ejhar, he has registered the case being Thelamara PS Case No
73/16 under Section 6 of POCSO Act and he himself took the charge of

 
Page 12 of 29

investigation. Ext.2 is the said ejahar and the Ext.2(2) is his signature
with note. As there was a late night on the day of receipt of the ejahar,
so, in the next morning, he proceeded to the place of occurrence and
drew two sketch maps as place of occurrence. First one is a place of
occurrence from where the Puja held i.e. the first missing place. Ext. 4 is
the said sketch map and Ext.4(1) is his signature. Ext.5 is the sketch map
of the place where the victim was recovered where Ext.5(1) is his
signature. Accordingly, he examined the witnesses and recorded ‘their
statement under Section 161 of the CrPC. The victim was sent for medical
examination and thereafter, the victim was produced before the Court for
recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC. He also ‘collected the
medical certificate along the required document in connection with this
case. Then, he arrested the accused and forwarded him before the Court.
During investigation, he has seized one callbar Mobile Handset with SIM
No 8136083863 of accused vide Ext.6 where,Ext. 6(1) is his signature. He
has also seized another Samsung Duos Mobile Handset from the
possession of Sri Ramlal Sahani_ vide Ext.7 where Ext. 7(1) is his
signature. Thereafter, on perusal of case diary, Circle Inspector Sri
Sangkha Swargiary filed charge sheet against the accused under Section
4 of POCSO Act. Ext. 8 is the charge sheet and Ext. 8(1) is the signature
of Circle Inspector Sangkha Swargiary which he knew on official

communication.

In cross-examination, he stated that in Ext. 8 i.e. the
chargesheet the address of the accused is shown as Bablu Sahani @
Babul Sahani, S/O Late Laxman Sahani, village Katonibari, PS Zinjia, Dist.
Biswanath. In the sketch map, Ext. 4, the place of occurrence is shown as
village Hojaigaon, PS Thelamara, Dist. Sonitpur. Though accused’s house
is at Jinjia but his father-in-law’s house is at Hojaigaon. Accused resides
in the house of his father-in-law. At the time of investigation he did not
found the son of accused. The black coloured man as stated by the victim
in her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. is the accused which he came to know in

the investigation.

 
Page 13 of 29

23. PW 15, Sri Sangkha Swargiary, stated that on 11-09-2016,
he was posted as an Inspector of Police at Missamari Police Station. On
that day in reference to Missamari PS Case No 73/16, he has perused the
case record and it appears that TIP was not done. Therefore, he has
identified the accused on photo by the victim through the IO. He has also
collected the medical report of the victim. Thereafter, on perusal of the
case diary, he filed charge sheet against the accused Bddablu Sahani
under Section 4 of POCSO Act. Ext.9 and Ext.10 are the photographs of
accused Bablu Sahani and Ext. 9(1) and Ext. 10(1) are his signatures.on

the photographs.

In cross-examination he stated that he has‘collected the Ext.
9 and Ext. 10 , the photographs of accused Bablu Sahani‘from the IO and
therefore, he has identified the said photographs ofthe accused through
the victim. Photographs are collected from the IO and it was found in
hand calf. The victim specifically identify the photographs of the accused.
Other than this identification, he-has collected the medical report and filed

the charge sheet.

24. These much<is ‘the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence

plea is total denial-while his statement was recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.

25. I have heard the arguments put forwarded by Learned Counsel
of both the sides.

26. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution
has. failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly, other
than the victim none has supported the prosecution case. Even the
statement of the victim, there is no any direct evidence as to the alleged
offence. Secondly, the victim herself did not recognize the accused as
there was no Test Identification Parade was held to identify the accused.
Thirdly, the statement of the victim was recorded very lately but cause of
late examination of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. was not clearly explained by
the I.O. Lastly, the prosecution story is such that, the victim was missing
while she was playing with the little kid of the accused and others at the

 
Page 14 of 29

Haritalika Brata Puja Mandap but it is difficult to believe that accused by
leaving his own baby at the Puja Mandap took the victim to the side of

the river to satisfy his sex.

27. Per contra, learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur
submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case beyond any
reasonable doubt, as such, accused is required to be convicted under the
charged section of law. Firstly, the victim supported the case clearly.<Her
evidence clearly reveals that at the relevant time she has been taken.to
the side of the river by accused enticing her with a lure. of giving
chocolate where accused touched her mouth and private parts with his
male sexual organ as a result she sustained pain and itybecome whitish.
Accused threatened her that ghost has lighted. a torchy Thereafter, the
accused left the place stating that he feels nature’s*call. Prior to that while
she was crying, accused threatened her/to._ cut. Indentifying the accused
in the court, she stated that the bald: man present in the dock is the said
accused. Her statement is corroborated with the FIR, statement u/s 161
and 164 Cr.P.C. Learned Magistrate who recorded her statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C. clearly stated that victim’ made statement voluntarily. Lastly, the
doctor PW 1 who examined’ the victim found that one superfacial tear
over labia minora insthe lower part, size about .5 cm x .1 cm x mucosal
deep. She also. saw marks of reddish in colour and swollen. There is no
any evidence that the victim has sustained such type of injuries by falling.
Beside the doctor admitted that such type of injury may be caused by any
blunt object.

28. Keeping in mind the argument advanced by learned counsels of

both sides, I am going to dispose of the case.

29. A close scanning of the record including the evidence of the
aforesaid witness, it is seen that except the victim there is no eye witness
to the occurrence. There is an evidence of prosecutrix that at the relevant
time accused enticing her with a lure of giving chocolate where accused
touched her mouth and private parts with his male sexual organ as a

result she sustained pain and it become whitish and accused threatened

 
Page 15 of 29

her that ghost has lighted torch. Thereafter, the accused left the place
stating that he feels nature’s call. Prior to that while she was crying,
accused threatened her to cut. It appears that her statement was not only
supported by PW 2 — grandfather, PW 3 — mother of the victim and PW 7-
father of the victim but her statement was also supported by other
independent witnesses i.e. PW 4 Sri Mohan Jadav, PW 5 Sri Mitra Sharma
and PW 8 Sri Hari Sarmah. Complainant PW 2 stated that at the relevant
time of occurrence victim’s age was only 4 years 7 months. On 04-09-
2016 “Haritorika Brata” was celebrated under a Peepal_ tree »near
Hojaigaon primary school. To enjoy the said celebration his. victim
granddaughter went there along with her mother. At about 6:30 p.m. her
grand daughter was found missing. They have vigorously searched her in
their village. They have also searched her towards the bank of the river
where “Bisharjan” was done. But did not find, her. But at last they
recovered the victim from the side of*the river Brahmaputra. On being
asked, the victim told them that accused took her from said Puja Mandap
with luring to give a chocolate». Then the accused took her towards the
side of western side of River Brahmaputra. Accused threatened her not to
shout and then accused ‘put)his penis into her vagina and then to her
mouth. The victim<also complained him that she has suffering pain in her

private parts and neck:

Similarly, PW 3 — the mother of the victim also stated that to
enjoy. the said “Haritorika Brata” celebration she went there at about 3
p.m. along with her daughter. Her daughter, along with other children
including the kid of the accused were playing there. Accused was sitting in
a chair along with his baby. After completion of puja and completion of
distributing Prasad all of a sudden electricity was shut down and almost
darkness set in. But her daughter was found missing. She started to
crying. Then the local public including her husband and father-in-law
recovered her daughter from the side of the River Brahmaputra. The girl
was handed over to her. Her victim girl told her that accused inserted his
penis into her private parts and mouth. By removing her clothes, she has

noticed slight reddish on her private parts.

 
Page 16 of 29

PW 4 Sri Mohan Jadav also stated that at about 6.30 p.m. of the
day of incident, he came to know from the aunty of the victim that their
niece was missing. Then he along with other villagers went to search the
victim to the river bank of Brahmaputra. They have also searched her
towards the bank of the river where “Bisharjan” was done. At the side of
Brahmaputra, near a cremation ground they found the victim girl standing
there alone and recovered her. On being asked, she reported to her
father that accused has taken her with a lure to give chocolate and «then
she was forced to take towards river side. The victim stated to her mother
that the accused has put his penis into her vagina and then’to her mouth.
On removing her clothes by her father they noticed a ‘swelling on her
private parts. Since the day of incident, accused was absconded from

their village.

PW 5 also stated that on the relevant day, there was a “Teez”
Festival and the people were busy in performing puja. During that time,
children were playing. In that time he,has noticed the accused sitting in a
chair and also saw the victim girlsnear the accused. At about 6 p.m. the
victim was missing. Local public*’came to his shop in search the missing
girl. Then he alongwith other villagers and guardian of the victim went
out to search the victim to the bank of the Brahmaputra. Then they
noticed the victim_standing alone near the cremation ground at the side of
Brahmaputra. The victim girl was handed over to her father. On being
enquired, the victim stated that the person who has taken her is known to
her. Similarly, PW 8 Sri Hari Sarmah stated that on the day of Haritalika
Puja’at about 6.30 p.m. after completion of puja, they came to know that
the victim was missing from the Puja Mandap. The villagers searched the
victim and recovered the victim from the side of river Brahmaputra where
they noticed the victim standing alone near the cremation ground. He
heard from the mouth of victim that at about 6.30 p.m. while there was a
Sun set, one black complexion person taken her with a lure of giving
chocolate and the said person inserted his penis into her private parts and

also into her mouth.
Page 17 of 29

Though it appears that all the aforesaid PWs i.e. PW 4, PW 5,
PW 7 and PW 8 were exposed to long cross-examination but their
evidence as to after completion of Puja at about 6.30 p.m. while the
victim was missing from the Puja Mandap local villagers vigorously
searched and at last recovered from the side of River Brahmaputra near a
cremation ground and after recovery the victim reported to her parents
that the accused took her with a lure of giving chocolate and there he
inserted his penis into her private parts and mouth has remained

unchallenged.

30. In this case, the victim and her parents including the grandfather
and also the independent witnesses categorically stated about the incident.
Their statements are corroborated with each other. ‘During their cross-
examination same has not been disputed at all\by*the defence. The victim
has been consistent with the material particular with regards to the incident
that on the day of incident in the evening time she was taken by the
accused with a lure of giving, chocolate to the side of the River
Brahmaputra, near a cremation ground, accused inserted his sexual organ
into her vagina as well as into her mouth. The victim also stated so before
the Learned Magistrate when her statement was recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

and before the police.while her statement was recorded u/s 161 Cr.P.C.

31. The.unrebuttable evidence of doctor is such that at the time of
examination.of the victim, the doctor found one superfacial tear over labia
minora inthe lower part, size about .5 cm x .1 cm x mucosal deep. Margins
are. reddish in colour and swollen was found in her private part. Therefore,
the doctor has also supported the evidence as to the injury sustained by

victim due to sexual assault.

32. In the present case at the time of examination of victim some
questions were put to her and she replied the same without any hesitation
and this court has held that the victim has able to give rational answers
thereafter her statement was recorded without oath. Apart from that,
other witnesses including the parents and grandfather of the victim also

supported the evidence of the victim. Besides, as stated earlier PW 4, PW 5

 
Page 18 of 29

and PW 8 all were supported the prosecution case. Their statements are
corroborated with each other including the statement of complainant,
victim and her parents. There is nothing in the cross-examination of any of
the prosecution witnesses which could suggest that they were deposing
falsely in any manner. Though they have been subjected to vigorous
suggestions but all the witnesses vehemently denied. The evidence of the
victim is cogent and reliable. There cannot be any doubt to disbelieve-the
evidence of the victim. On the other hand, at the time of recording..of
statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. all incriminating evidence appears. against. him
are duly put to accused where he denied the evidence and allegation. He

simply stated that he is an innocent person.

33. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the victim could
not identify the accused as she simply stated that a black complexion
person has took her to the side of the river Brahmaputra where accused
touched her mouth and private part with his male organ as a result she
sustained pain, therefore the victim could not identify the accused. Besides
that there is no Test Identification Parade was conducted by the

Investigating Officer to identify the accused. Hence, raised doubt.

34. In the present\case the statement made before the police except
witness Mitra“Sharma none of the prosecution witnesses named the
accused butsin the court, the complainant PW 2 Sri Nil Bahadur Kharka,
PW 3. Smti Rinkimoni Devi- mother, PW 5 Sri Mitra Sarmah and PW 7 Sri
Jubraj Kharka - father of the victim all were identified the accused even by
stating the name of the accused. The victim PW 6, who has identified the
accused in the court by stating that the “bald man present in the dock is

the said accused”.

35. Coming to the present case as stated above, Sri Mitra Sarmah —
PW 5 while made statement before the I.0. he mentioned the name of the
accused. That apart, informant PW 2, PW 3 — mother of the victim, PW 4 —
Sri Mohan Jadav — an independent witness, PW 7 Sri Jubraj Kharka —father
of the victim, PW 8 Sri Hari Sarmah and PW 9 Ramlal Sahani, all were

stated in the same tune that they knew the accused. They have not been

 
Page 19 of 29

cross-examination on the point of identification of the accused by the
learned counsel for the defence. Besides that, victim herself identified the
accused in the court stating that the bald man present in the dock is the
said accused. There is no any evidence which create doubt as to identify
the accused in the case. Under such circumstances, as submitted by
learned counsel for the accused that there is a doubt in identification of the

accused in the case cannot be accepted.

In this connection, I have cited a case law viz, Heera & Another,
petitioner Vs. State of Rajasthan, respondent, on 20\June, 2007
reported in Appeal (Cri) No. 1307 of 2006 wherein it is held -

“It seems to us that it has been. clearly laid down
by this court, in Parkash Chand Sogani V. The State of
rajasthan (supra) (AIR Cri LJ), that the absence of test
identification in all cases is not\fatal and if the accused
person is well known by sight it would be waste of time to
put him up for identification. Of course if the prosecution
fails to hold an identification on the plea that the
witnesses already. knew the accused well and it transpires
in the course of the trial that the witnesses did not know
the accused previously, the prosecution would run the risk

of losing its case.”

In Ramanbhai Naranbhai Patel & others Vs. State of Gujrat (2000
(1) SCC 358) Hon'ble Apex court observed :-

“It becomes at once clear that the aforesaid
observations were made in the light of the peculiar facts
and circumstances wherein the police is said to have given
the names of the accused to the witnesses. Under these
circumstances, identification of such a named accused
only in the court when the accused was not known earlier
to the witness had to be treated as valueless. The said
decision, in turn, relied upon an earlier decision of this
court in the case of State (Delhi Admn,) v. V.C. Sukla (AIR
1980 SC 1382) wherein also Fazal Ali, J. Speaking fror a

 
Page 20 of 29

three Judge Bench made similar observations in this
regard. In that case the evidence of the witness in the
court and his identifying the accused only in the court
without previous identification parade was found to be a
valueless exercise. The observations made therein were
confined to the nature of the evidence deposed to by the
said eye witnesses. It, therefore, cannot be held, as tried
to be submitted by learned counsel for the appellants, that
in the absence of a test identification parade, the evidence
of an eye witness identifying the accused would become
inadmissible or totally useless ; whether the evidence
deserves any credence or not would always depend.on the
facts and circumstances of each case. It is, of course, true
as submitted by learned counsel for the ‘appellants that
the later decisions of this court in ‘the’ case of Rajesh
Govind Jogesha V. State of Maharashtra (AIR 2000 SC
160) and State of H.P. v. Lekh Raj (AIR 1999 SC 3916),
had not considered the \aforesaid three-Judge Bench
Judgments on the facts and circumstances examined by
the Court while. rendering these decisions. But even
assuming aS submitted by learned counsel for the
appellants that the evidence of, these two _ injured
witnesses i.e. Bhogilal Ranchhodbhai and Karsanbhai
Vallabhbhai identifying the accused in the court may be
treated to be of no assistance to the prosecution, the fact
remains that these eye witnesses were seriously injured
and they could have easily seen the faces of the persons
assaulting them and their appearance and identify would
well within imprinted in their minds especially when they
were assaulted in broad day light. The could not be said to
to be interested in roping in innocent persons by shielding

the real accused who had assaulted them”

36. In Munna Kr. Upadhaya @ Munna Upadhaya Vs. State of
Andhra Pradesh reported in 2012 Crl.L.J. 3068, the Hon’ble Apex Court
pleased to held —

 
Page 21 of 29

"Statement made by the accused u/s 313 Cr.P.C. serves a
dual purpose. Firstly, to afford to the accused an
opportunity to explain his conduct and secondly, to use
denial of established facts as incriminating evidence
against him if the accused given incorrect or false answers
during the course of his statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C., the

court draw an adverse inference against him”

In the instant case the absurd explanation as to his conduct and“to_deny
the established fact by the accused can easily drawn an adverse inference

against him.

37. Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of
accused is not leading any defence evidence. would not have mattered
much as prosecution is supposed to prove its case beyond shadows of all
reasonable doubts. However, in a case under POCSO Act, the situation is
not so. In this regard, it will be worthwhile to refer to the provisions of
Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

38. U/s. 29 of POGSOAct, a mandatory presumption for certain
offence is to be drawn, against the accused in a prosecution for certain
offences and same reads as under:

“29. Presumption’ as to certain offences — Where a person is prosecuted
for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any offence u/s.3, 5, 7
and Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person
has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the case
may be, unless the contrary is proved.

39. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special
Court shall draw a presumption of the existence of culpable mental state of
the accused where culpable mental state is required on the part of the
accused. Section 30 reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any prosecution for any
offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the part of

the accused, the Special Court shall presume that existence of such mental

 
Page 22 of 29

state but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had
no such mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that
prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be proved only
when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and
not merely when its existence is established by a preponderance of
probabilities.

40. Coming to the present case, whether the conviction..can\be

recorded on the sole testimony of a child witness or not?

Such type of issue was dealt by the Hon’ble. Apex Court in
Virendra — Vs — State of U.P., (2008) 16 SCC, which are reproduced
as under:

"The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as a

determinative factor to treat-a witness to be a competent one.

On the contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages

that who may testify -— all. persons shall be competent to

testify unless the Court considers that they are prevented from
understanding the. questions put to them, or from giving
rational answers to those questions, by tender years, extreme
old age, disease, whether of body or mind, or any other cause

of the same kind.”

41. Axchild of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she has
intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational answers
thereto: The evidence of a child witness is not required to be rejected per
se, but the Court as a rule of prudence considers such evidence with close
scrutiny and only on being convinced about the quality thereof and

reliability can record conviction, based thereon.

42. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare — Vs — State of Maharashtra,
(1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held that —

"a Child witness if found competent to depose to the facts and
reliable one such evidence could be the basis of conviction. In

other words, even in the absence of oath the evidence of a child
Page 23 of 29

witness can be considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act provided
that such witness is able to understand the questions and able
to give rational answer thereof. The evidence of a child witness
and credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of
each case. The only precaution which the Court should bear in
mind while assessing the evidence of a child witness is that the
witness must be a reliable one and his/her demeanour must be
like any other competent witness and there is no likelihood of

being tutored.”

43. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak > Vs —
State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the decision on
the question whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence primarily
rests with the trial Judge who notices his manners, his apparent
possessions or lack of intelligence, and the said Judge may resort to any
examination which will tend to disclose his capacity and intelligence as

well as his understanding of the obligation of an oath.

44. In the present case*asystated above, the victim was examined
after testifying her rationally. by putting some questions where she
without hesitation makes statement.

It appears*according to the prosecution story after recovery of the
victim, she narrated the whole incident to her grandfather —PW 2, mother
PW 3, father. PW 7 in presence of PW 4, PW 5, PW8 and in court all the

aforesaid witnesses supported the version of prosecutrix.

45. » Another point raised by learned counsel for the accused is that PW
2. is the grandfather of the victim, PW 3 and PW 7 are the mother and
father of the victim respectively, therefore, the question may rise as to the
interestedness of their evidence.

Law is well settled that the interested witnesses are not necessarily
false witness. Though the fact that those witnesses have personal interest
or stake in the matter must put the court of its guard, that the evidence of
such witnesses must be subjected to close scrutiny as the court must

assess the testimony of each important witness and indicates the reasons

 
Page 24 of 29

for accepting or rejecting it and that no doubt should be at once discarded
simply because, it came from interested parties. [Vide — (a) Siya Ram Rai
Vs, State of Bihar (1973) 3 SCC 241; (b) Sarwan Sing Vst. state of Punjab
(1976) 4 SCC 369 ; (c) Birbal Vs. Keder AIR 1977 SC ; (d) Anvaruddin Vs.
Shakoor JT (1990) 2 SC 83].

46. Coming to the present case, it is true that PW 2 grandfather of the
victim, PW 3 and 7 respectively are mother and father of the victim. As
stated above, there is no eye witness except the victim as the incident*took
place at the remote place at the side of the river Brahmaputra so itywould
be futile to expect for prosecution to produce any independent outsider as
a witness. More so, in the instant case, it is not that.only PW 2, 3 and 7
who have supported the prosecution case, there are other independent
witnesses i.e. PW 4, PW 5 and PW 8 who also‘supported the prosecution
case. Therefore, the evidence of PW<2, 3.and 7 cannot be thrown

overboard simply on the ground of interestedness of their evidence.

47. In the present case it-appears that neither the prosecutrix nor any
of the witnesses has been-examined on any bitter enmity in between family
members of victim and thesaccused. There is no any evidence that there is
any quarrel which“led to enmity in between the family members of the
victim with the accused. Even if there is any enmity, it is not expected as to
why the victim=of sexual assault would blame accused sparing the real
culprit... That) apart, there is no any reason that the complainant being the
grandfather of the victim would put his minor granddaughter at stake by
falsely pressing commission of penetrative sexual intercourse. Therefore,
the statement of victim is found to be worthy of credence, convincing and

reliable.

48. In this case, the other circumstances relied by the prosecution are
as follows :

First incriminating circumstance is that - after completion of Puja
held for Haritalika Brata at about 6.30 p.m. the victim was found missing.
All the villagers including most of the witnesses searched the victim and at

last they recovered the victim at the side of river Brahmaputra near a

 
Page 25 of 29

cremation ground. Second incriminating circumstance is that - after
recovery of the victim she reported about the incident to her grandfather,
mother and father in presence of PW 5 and PW 8. Third incriminating
circumstance is that — from the Puja Mandap accused enticing the victim
with a lure of giving chocolate, took her to the side of river Brahmaputra
where accused touched her mouth and private parts with his male sexual
organ as a result she sustained pain in private part and it becomes whitish.
Fourth incriminating circumstance is that — after disclosing about.the
incident by the victim to her grandfather, mother and father, thesmother
while removing her clothes they noticed slight reddish and swelling on her
private parts. Fifth incriminating circumstance is that\— the doctor who
examined the victim stated that on examination of the victim, he found one
superfacial tear over labia minora in the lower part) size about .5 cm x .1
cm xX mucosal deep. Margins of reddish in colour and swollen. Sixth
incriminating circumstance is that — there is no enmity appears in between
the family members of the victim.with the accused, seventh incriminating
circumstance is that since the day of incident, the accused was also
abscond from their village and last incriminating circumstance is that —
accused simply denied his guilty that gives no explanation of the incident

while his statement was recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.

49. __A\ll_these facts taken cumulatively form a chain so complete that
there issno escape from the conclusion that within all human probabilities
that itis none but accused who committed penetrative sexual assault to
the victim at the side of river Brahmaputra near a cremation ground. These
established circumstances did not admit of explanation of any other
hypothesis then that of the guilt of the accused Bablu Sahani @ Babul

Sahani.

50. In view of the aforesaid discussions, I am of the opinion that from
the evidence of the victim, other witnesses, medical report and other
documents available in the record, the prosecution has successfully proved

the guilt of the accused Sri Bablu Sahani @ Babul Sahani for aggravated

 
Page 26 of 29

sexual assault punished under Section 10 of POCSO Act, but, failed to

prove the guilt for aggravated penetrative sexual assault.

51. +The accused is heard on the point of sentence. He has submitted
that he is the only earning member of his family. Hence, praying for

leniency.

52. The learned defence counsel for the accused submits that ‘the
convict Bablu Sahani @ Babul Sahani is a man of 40 years and hesis-a
businessman. He was not previously convicted in any offence and he»is one

of the main earning members of their family. Hence, praying forleniency.

53. I have carefully considered the submissions made by learned
Special Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur as well as learned defence counsel. I

have also gone through the case record.

54. Turning to the question of sentence) it is the settled law that while
deciding the quantum of punishmentp.it’ is required that the Court should
strike a balance between aggravating circumstances and _ mitigating
circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to the crime and
mitigating circumstances relate to the criminal. In this case, so far as the
aggravating circumstances are concerned, a minor girl was sexually
exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not only to the body but also to
the mind of the victim and to her family members, but considering the
mitigating ‘circumstances, the accused was hardly 40 years of age at the
time of the incident. It is not brought to the notice of this Court that before
this. incident, the accused had committed any other offence. The statute
stated u/s.10 of POCSO Act prescribes minimum punishment for a term of
5(five) years with fine. When the intention of the legislator is to impose
stringent punishment for not less than ten years, this court has no option
but to impose minimum punishment of ten years.
ORDER

55. —_I convict the accused Bablu Sahani @ Babul Sahani u/s. 10 of
POCSO Act and sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 5 (five)

years and also to pay a fine of Rs.5000/- (Rupees five thousand only), in

 
Page 27 of 29

default, Rigorous Imprisonment for 1 (one) month for the offence u/s 10
of POCSO Act. The period, which he detained in custody, shall be set off
from the period of imprisonment, imposed on him according to the
procedure of 428 of Cr.P.C.
56. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through the statement
of witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the compensation. To
mitigating the mental agony and trauma suffered by the victim, an
amount of Rs. 25,000/- (Rupees twenty five thousand) only is awarded
as compensation. The Secretary, District Legal Aid Services Authority,
Sonitpur, Tezpur be asked to give the compensation to thefather of the
victim after proper enquiry.
57. Acopy of this judgment be furnished to.the accused free of cost
and a copy thereof be sent to the District.Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur,
as per provisions of law.

Send a copy of this Judgment, to the Central Jail, Sonitpur,
Tezpur.

Given under my Hand,and Seal of this Court on this the 25” day
of May, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
Page 28 of 29

A- N-N-E-X-U-R-E

1. PRESECUTION WITNESSES

PW 1 :- Dr. Geetumoni Das, M.O.

PW 2 :- Sri Nil Bahadur Kharka, complainant.
PW 3 :- Smti Rinkimoni Devi,

PW 4 :- Sri Mohan Jadav

PW 5 :- Sri Mitra Sharma

PW 6 :- Miss X (victim)

PW 7 :- Sri Jubraj Kharka,

PW 8 :- Sri Hari Sarmah,

PW 9 :- Sri Ramlal Sahani

PW 10 :- Sri Chiraj Chetry

PW 11 :- Sri Brij Kishor Sahani

PW 12 :- Sri Raju Boro

PW 13 :- Mrs Meenakshi Sarmah, Judl.\Magistrate.
PW 14 :- Sri Prasanna Saharia,,I.0.

PW 15 :- Sri Sangkha Swargiary, T.O.

2. WITNESSES FOR DEFENCE :- NIL

3. PROSECUTION EXHIBITS:

Exhibit 1 :- Medical report

Exhibit 1(4) to (1) :- Signatures of M.O.

Exhibit,2 :- Ejahar

Exhibit.2(1) :- signature of the complainant.

Exhibit 2 A :- statement of victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Exhibit 3 :- order of learned Addl.CJM, Sonitpur.
Exhibit 3(1) :- Signature of learned Addl.CJM, Sonitpur.
Exhibit 3(2) :- Signature of learned CJM, Sonitpur.

Exhibit 3(4) and 2 A(1) :- Signature of Mrs Meenakshi Sarmah,
Judl. Magistrate.

Exhibit 4&5 :- Sketch maps

Exhibit 6 & 7 :- seizurelists

Exhibit 8 :- Chargesheet.

 
Page 29 of 29

Exhibit 2(2), 4(1),5(1),6(1),7(1) :- signatures of I.0. Prasanna
Saharia.

Exhibit 9 & 10 :- Photographs of accused Bablu Sahani
Exhibit 8(1), 9(1) and 10(1) :- Signatures of I.0. Sangkha
Swargiary.

4. DEFENCE EXHIBITS: NIL

5. COURT WITNESSES : NIL

(A.K. Borah)
Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
