Page 1 of 22

THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPL(POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of
accused u/s313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

14 of 2017

(Under Section 8 of POCSO Act,
arising out of G.R. Case No 1375
of 2017)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS

Special judge, Sonitpur,
Tezpur

State of Assam

-Vs-

Sri Gajendra Das,

Son of Late Nripendra Das,
Resident of Ex-police line,
Police Station — Tezpur
Dist :- Sonitpur, Assam.
19/07/2017

02/08/2017, 25/08/2017,
20/09/2017, 23/11/2017’
& 06/12/2017.

01/02/2018.

12/03/2018

22/03/2018

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Special Public prosecutor, Sonitpur

Smt. Dulumoni Sinha, Advocate
Page 2 of 22

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Gajendra Das is put for trial for
allegation of charge under Section 8 of POCSO Act.
2. The various facts leading to this case according to FIR in

brief is that the accused resided at a rented house under the same
landlady of informant. The informant has two daughters Smt.
Majoni Baishya, 12 years and another one is Smt. Nita Baishya, 7
years. It is also stated that the accused out of affection called
informant’s both the daughters to his rented room. Accordingly, his
both daughters used to visit the accused’s room frequently. On 19-
04-2017 at about 3 p.m. taking the advantage of \absence of
informant accused took informant’s elder daughter into his room,
laid her down with intent to do misdeed. The son of landlady Sri
Tinku Mandal on being seen the incident.raised alarm. Thereafter,
he came to know from her younger daughter that about three days
ago accused also did such act to her’ Out of fear she could not
disclose the incident. Hence,this\prosecution case. The ejahar was
filed by informant Sri Khagen Baishya before the O/C of Tezpur PS
on 20-04-2017.

3. On being receipt the ejahar, the O/C Tezpur P.S. registered
the case, vide, Fezpur PS Case No. 703/17, under Section 8 of
POCSO Act..After completion of usual investigation, the O/C Tezpur
Police ‘station sent up the case for trial against the accused Sri
Gajendra Das under Section 8 of POCSO Act.

4. On being appeared the accused person before this Court
after hearing both parties, framed charge under section 8 of POCSO
Act. Particulars of the charge are read over and explained to which
he pleads not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as
11 (eleven) numbers of witnesses. Accused pleads total denial while
his statement was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegation made
against the accused and evidence appears against the accused are
put before him where he deny the evidence and decline to give

defence evidence.
Page 3 of 22

6. I have also heard argument put forward by the learned
counsel for both parties.
7. The point for decision in this case is that :

(i) Whether on or about 19-04-2017 and prior

to 2/ 3 days before 19-04-2017, at about 3

p.m. at Dorokialgaon under Tezpur Police

station, accused committed sexual assault on

victim, aged about 12 years of age and

thereby committed an offence punishable

under section 8 of POCSO Act ?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the
evidence on record.
9. PW- 1 Sri Khagen Baishya stated before the court that he
knows the accused. They called himy as “Nisha”. Victim is his
daughter. She is aged about-12 years. The incident occurred about
three months ago. On the day of incident, he was not at his house.
Next day he came back to his house from his works. On arrival at
home, he came to*know from his wife and others that the accused
Nisha had committed misdeed on his daughter Miss “X”. On the
day of the incident, when the local public asked the accused, then
he confessed about his guilt. On being asked by him, his
daughter/victim informed him that the accused had committed rape
to her. Next day of the incident, he filed the ejahar before police
which was written by a scribe. The scribe has written the said
ejahar as per his dictation. Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext.1(1) is his
signature. Police recorded his statement. After instituting the case
police arranged to examine his daughter through the doctor. She
was also sent to the court to record her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

Though he has been exposed to long cross-examination
except giving many suggestions the evidence as to in the next day
of incident, when he came to his house he came to know from his

wife and others that accused “Nisha” had committed misdeed to his
Page 4 of 22

daughter Miss X, on the day of incident, when the local public asked
the accused he confessed about his guilt and on being asked his
daughter, his daughter/victim informed him that accused has
committed rape upon her has remained unchallenged.

10. PW- 2 Smt. Mamu Baishya who stated before the court that
victim is her daughter. Victim is aged about 12 years. The incident
occurred about 2/ 3 months ago. Accused and they resided at a
rented house under the same landlady. On the day of incident she
went to a house of their neighbor in the evening time. During, that
time, victim and other daughter was alone at their house.“The other
daughter was in sick so she was in bed. Accused called\both of her
daughters with a lure of giving money. As the little daughter
Gitanjali was in sick so she did not go there but the victim/daughter
go to the room of the accused and accused committed rape on her.
She was also threatened not to disclose about the incident to them.
In the next day, in the evening her husband came and she reported
the incident to him. The brothersof landlady told her that she has
not seen the incident. Thelandlady also told her that the incident
was witnessed by her brother. Then she turned hostile.

In cross-examination by defence she admitted that she has
not seen the incident. Under the landlady Bina Mandal, there are
many persons resides as tenant. They have not any cordial relation
with<any of the other tenants of Bina Mandal. She did not know the
name ‘of the person from whom she visited at the time of incident.
But they called them as “Khura” and “Khuri’. On the day of incident
her husband went to do labour at “Usha Pendal” near Mahila Samity
and he resides there at night. Next day, in the morning at about 8/9
a.m. her husband came back to their home. While he came she met
him on the road just near their house when she went to bring
bettlenut.

11. PW3, Miss X, the victim, who was examined after making
enquiry to test her intelligence and ability to give rational answers,
stated before this court that the incident took place at about 3

months ago in the evening time, Her mother went to a house of
Page 5 of 22

neighbor and her father went out to do his work. She and her
younger sister Gitanjali were there. As her younger sister Gitanjali
was not feeling well so Dadu (accused) called her to his house.
Accused by opening her pant fingering her private parts and then
he touched her whole body. The accused asked her not to disclose
the matter to her parents. Her sister entered into the house of the
accused in search of her. During that time, Tinku, the son of
landlady entered into the house of Dadu (accused). In the house of
Dadu (accused), Dadu and his sister was found sleeping together in
a bed. Tinku asked her whether Dadu had committed any. misdeed
to her. Then she reported to Tinku that accused fingering her
private parts. Then Tinku took out Dadu to outside. On being
hearing about the incident local public gathered‘there and she also
reported the matter to local public that accused committed bad act
to her. In the next day, she reportedthe matter to her father. Then
her father has filed this case. After instituting the case, she was
examined by doctor and her-statement was also recorded through
the Magistrate.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination,
the evidence as tovon the day of incident while her younger sister
was in ill accused-called her to his house where accused opening
her pant-fingering her private parts has remained unchallenged.

12. < \PW 4, Miss Gitanjali Baishya, younger sister of the victim,
who. was examined after making enquiry to test her intelligence and
ability to give rational answers stated that the incident took place
about three months ago. At the relevant time her parents were not
in their house. She and her elder sister were only there. She was
sleeping in their house as she was not feeling well. Dadu called her
to his room. Though she refused to go initially but Dadu forcefully
took her by holding her hands. Dadu laid her on bed. Thereafter,
Dadu took her elder sister to his room. After instituting the case by

her father, her statement was recorded through the Magistrate.
Page 6 of 22

In cross-examination, she admitted that she has not

reported to her mother that Dadu (accused) forcefully took her into
his room and laid her down in the bed.
13. PW 5 Smt. Bina Mandal stated that she knows the accused
Gajendra Das. She also knows the complainant Khagen Baishya.
Both the complainant and the accused resided at her rented house.
Gajendra Das resides in her rented house since two months ago
from the date of incident. The incident took place about 4/5 months
ago. As he did not pay the rent therefore, on the day of incident,
she sent her son Tinku Mandal to him to ask for rent. When her son
went to the room of Gajendra he saw accused doing bad»yact with
the girl namely Miss X, aged about 12/13 years, who is the
daughter of Khagen Baishya. She has not attained puberty.
Accordingly, her son informed her about the incident. On being
came to know about the incident,“she informed the matter to
another tenant Kajal Das. Then, neighboring people came and
assaulted both the daughters ‘of the complainant. Thereafter,
Khagen Baishya filed the ejahar.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination,
the evidence as tosthe incident took place about 4/ 5 months ago,
as the accused did not pay her rent, therefore, she sent her son
Tinku Mandal to ask the rent, when her son went to the room of
the accused, he saw accused doing bad act with the girl namely
Miss. X, aged about 12/13 years, who is the daughter of Khagen
Baishya and she did not attain puberty, accordingly and her son
informed her about the incident has remained unchallenged.

14. PW 6 Sri Tinku Mandal stated that he knows the accused
Gajendra Das who resides in their tenanted house. He also knows
the complainant Khagen Baishya. The incident took place about 3/4
months ago. As the accused did not pay rent therefore, on the day
of incident, he went to room of rented house of the accused to ask
the rent. He saw the accused and Miss X/victim girl in the bed. Both
were sleeping together. While his mother asked about the incident

to the victim, she stated to his mother that the accused committed
Page 7 of 22

misdeed to her. Then the father of the victim filed this
case.Thereafter, the victim was sent for medical examination by
police and also sent her to the court for recording her statement.

In cross-examination he admitted that the accused did not
pay their rent from very beginning till the date of occurrence. So
they repeatedly asked him to vacate the rented room. Due to
default of payment of rent his mother becomes angry upon the
accused. For the said reason, altercation took place in between us.
15. PW 7 Sri Deba Hazarika, stated that he knows the accused
as he resides at the side of his house but does not knowshis_name.
The incident took place on or about 3/ 4 months agoy At the
relevant time, the accused was found assaulting by, son of their
landlady and neighbours for alleging him indulging in some
misdeeds. On being came to know about.the incident, he went to
the said place. Then he intervened,-asked the boys not to assault
the accused. When he asked the accused about the allegation, he
confessed his guilt. He alsovasked the victim girl who also stated
that the accused committed. mis deeds to her.

Though he has. been exposed to long cross-examination, the
evidence as to at the relevant time the accused was found
assaulting by son-of their landlady and neighbours for alleging him
indulgingsin.some misdeeds, on being came to know about the
incident, he went to the said place, then he intervened, asked the
boys not to assault the accused, when he asked the accused about
the allegation, he confessed his guilt and he also asked the victim
girl who also stated that the accused committed mis-deeds to her
has remained unchallenged.

16. PW 7 Smti Kumkum Das, who stated that she knows the
accused as he resides in a rented house in their village. The
incident took place on or about four months ago. She also knows
the victim. They called her as “Dangor moina”. The father of the
victim has two daughters, one is “Dangor Maina” and the other is
“Saru Maina”. The title of the father is some Baishya. The name of

the mother of the victim is Mamu Baishya. They are their neighbor.
Page 8 of 22

They are living there in a rented house for a long time in the house
of one Bina Mandal. On the day of incident, there was a screaming
and shouting that “Dangor Maina” was raped by the accused. On
being heard about the incident, she rushed to the place of
occurrence and she asked the accused and the accused confessed
his guilt and praying for apology. As accused is an old man so they
did not assault her. When she asked the victim, she also stated that
accused touched her body and doing mis-deeds. Thereafter, the
complainant Mr. Baisshya filed the case. Police recorded\ her
statement.

Though she has been exposed to long cross-examination
except giving many suggestions, the evidence as to on the day of
incident there was a screaming and shouting that’“Dangor Maina”
was raped by the accused, on being heard about the incident, she
rushed to the place of occurrence and she asked the accused and
the accused confessed his guilt and praying for apology, as accused
is an old man so they did mot ‘assault her, when she asked the
victim, she also stated that accused touched her body and doing
mis-deeds and thereafter, the complainant Mr. Baisshya filed the
case has remained‘unchallenged.

17. PW 9 Dr-Amarjit Kaur stated that on 20-04-2017 she was
posted as,working as Sub-Divisional Medical & Health Officer in the
Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur and on that day at about 2 p.m., in
the. labour room complex of KCH, she examined Rekhamoni
Baishya, 12 years, D/O Sri Khagen Baishya of Nalbari Marua, Dist.
Nalbari, C/O Smti Binu Mandal, W/O late Harekrishna Mandal,
village Darikialgaon, PS Tezpur in reference to Tezpur PS Case
NO. 703/17 u/s 8 of POCSO Act, on being escorted and identified
by WHG Madhumita Kotoki vide Hospital Registration No.
8046/E/17. She was examined in presence of GNM Kamala
Talukdar. On examination she found the following:

She had attained puberty on 09-04-2017. History of sexual
assault on 19-04-2017 at 3 p.m.

Height — 126 cm, Weight — 26 kg.
Page 9 of 22

At the time of examination, she was well dress little girl. Her
Secondary sexual character yet to develop. Breast developing. Pubic
and auxillary hair absent. Vulva and vagina healthy. Vaginal smear
was taken and sent for examination.
Investigation advised and report:
1. Vaginal smear report — sperm not seen. KCH lab No.
48/17 dated 20-04-2017.
X-ray —reports:
Union of epiphysis of lower end of ulna are not, yet
complete.
Epiphysis of medial epicondyle of the humerous are-also not
united with respective shafts.
Epiphysis of the iliac crest has not appeared)
Inference : Age of the person under investigation
appears to be not above 16 years.
OPINION: 1. There was no signs and symptoms of recent
sexual intercourse.
2. No mark‘of violence was seen on her body as well
as in her private parts.
3. Actual Age of the victim under investigation
appears to be not above 16 years.
Enclos: Hospital registration card and vaginal smear
report and X-ray plates and reports.
Ext:2 is the Medical Report and Ext. 2(1) is her signature. Ext. 3 is
the vaginal smear report of KCH and Ext. 3(1) is the signature of
technician of KCH, Tezpur. Ext. 4 is the X-ray report and plates and
Ext. 4(1) is the signature of Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist. Ext. 5 is
the advice slip and Ext. 5(1) is her signature.
18. PW-10 Sri Ranjit Borah, I.O. of this case, has stated that on
last 20-04-2017 he was posted as ASI of police at Tezpur Police
station. On that day, one Khagen Baishya filed an ejahar before the
police station and after receipt of the ehahar the then O/C Ranjit
Saikia registered the case vide Tezpur PS Case No. 703/17 u/s 8 of
the POCSO Act and entrusted him to investigate the case. Ext. 1 is
Page 10 of 22

the said ejahar and Ext.1(2) is the note and signature of the then
O/C Ranjit Saikia. Accordingly he visited the place of occurrence,
prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence. Ext. 6 is the
sketch map and Ext. 6(1) is his signature. Thereafter, he recorded
the statement of witnesses u/s 161 Cr.P.C. Then he arrested the
accused and forwarded him to the court. The two victims were sent
for medical examination and thereafter, the victims were produced
before the court for recording their statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. On
completion of investigation, finding prima-facie materials against
the accused he has filed the chargesheet against the accused u/s 8
of POCSO Act. Ext. 8 is the charge-sheet and Ext. \8(1) is his
signature.

Witness Mamu Baishya stated before<him, that “then I went
to the room and asked my daughter Miss\X about the incident
where she stated that said Sri Gajendra Das has committed
misdeeds to her”

Ext. 9 is the case diary of. Tezpur PS case No. 703/17 and
Ext. 9(1) is the relevant<portion of statement of Mamu Baishya in
the case diary and Ext. 9(2) is his signature.

In cross-examination he admitted that on 19-04-2017 before
receiving the \FIR; he has visited the place of occurrence in
connection with GD entry No. 777 dated 19-04-2017. On that day,
he hassrecorded the statement of informant Khagen Baishua, Mamu
Baishya, Tinku Mandal, Bina Mandal, Kumkum Das and Deba
Hazarika. He has sent the victim girls for medical examination on
20-04-2017 at about 12 0’ clock noon. He has also sent the victim
girls for recording their statements u/s 164 Cr.P.C. He recorded the
statement of both the victims girls on 20-04-2017 in an isolated
room of the PS in presence of woman police. The room is meant for
female person.

19. PW 11 Miss Aklima Begum stated that on 20-04-2017 she
was working as Judicial Magistrate, 1“ class, Sonitpur, Tezpur and
on that day in reference to Tezpur PS Case No. 703 /17 u/s 8 of the

POCSO Act, she has recorded the statement of one victim
Page 11 of 22

Rekhamoni Baishya, D/O Khagen Baishya, aged about 12 years,
u/s 164 Cr.P.C. As the witness was 12 years old minor, so she has
enquired as to her intelligence and ability to give rational answer.
Thereafter, the said victim was examined in her court chamber on
being escorted and identified by WPC 38 Chitralekaha Das. The
statement made by victim voluntarily. The statement was recorded
in presence of mother of victim Smti Mamu Baishya. As the victim
does not know how to put signature so she has taken the thumb
impression of mother Smti Mamu Baishya in her statement. Ext, 9 is
the statement of victim Miss Rekhamoni Baishya and Ext. 9(1) is her
signature and 9(2) is the signature of

WPC 38 Chitralekaha Das.

On the said day and under the same above reference he
has also recorded the statement of other victim Smti Gitanjali
Baishya , D/O Khagen Baishya, aged.about)8 years, u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
As the witness was 8 years old minor so she has enquired as to her
intelligence and ability to giveyrational answer. Thereafter, the said
victim was examined in her court chamber on being escorted and
identified by WPC 38.Chitralekaha Das. The statement made by
victim voluntarily.\The statement was recorded in presence of
mother of victim-Smti Mamu Baishya. As the victim does not know
how to_putssignature so she has taken the thumb impression of
mother. Smti Mamu Baishya in her statement. Ext. 10 is the
statement of victim Smti Gitanjali Baishya and Ext. 10(1) is her
Signature and Ext. 10(2) is the signature of WPC 38 Chitralekaha
Das.

On 21-04-2017 under the same above reference she has
recorded the statement of witness Sri Tinku Mandal, S/O Late
Harekrishna Mandal, village Dorokial gaon, PS Tezpur, aged about
27 years, u/s 164 Cr.P.C. She has recorded the statement of said
witness in her court chamber. The said witness made statement
voluntarily. The said witness was escorted and identified by Home
Guard Ghanashyam Nath. After recording his statement, the

statement was read over to him and on acceptance he put his
Page 12 of 22

signature thereon. Ext. 11 is the statement of witness Sri Tinku
Mandal and Ext. 11 (1) is her signature. Ext. 11(2) is the signature
of Home Guard Ghanashyam Nath and Ext. 11(3) and Ext. 11(4)
are the signature of Sri Tinku Mandal.

Ext. 12 is the order of learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur and Ext. 12(1) is the signature of learned Chief
Judicial Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur Smti Rashmita Das. Ext. 12(2)
is her order and Ext. 12(3) is her signature. Ext. 12(4) is her order
and Ext. 12(5) is her signature.

Ext. 13 is the order of learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur and Ext. 13(1) is the signature of learned Chief
Judicial Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur Smti Rashmita Das. Ext. 13(2)
is her order and Ext. 13(3) is her signature.

20. These much is the evidence of prosecution

21. Defence plea is total denial while his statement was
recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

22. Learned counsel fory the accused submitted that the
prosecution has failed to ‘prove the case beyond any reasonable
doubt. Firstly, the sole evidence of the victim cannot be relied on
as her statement ‘made before the court is not tallied with the
statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Secondly, the statement of the
victim isenot_ supported by PW 6 Sri Tinku Mandal, the son of
landlady of the accused. Thirdly, there are many contradictions in
the statements of the witnesses.

23: On the other hand, learned Special Public Prosecutor has
submitted that the prosecution has ably proved the case against the
accused beyond any reasonable doubt, hence, accused is required
to be convicted under the charged section. Learned Special PP also
submitted that in fact there is no enmity in between the accused
and the complainant. Even if there is any strange relation between
the accused and complainant, it would not be expected from the
complainant to involve his own minor daughter in such a hatred

cases.
Page 13 of 22

Learned Special PP again submitted that PWs 1 and 2 are
the father and mother of the victim, therefore, question may arise
to their interestedness to succeed the case. To rely the interested
witnesses in convicting the accused, learned Special PP submitted
the case of Gali Venkataiah Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh
reported in 2008 Crl.L.J. 690. In regard to minor discrepancies,
learned Special PP also submitted the case law of State of UP V.
Krishna Master & ors reported in 2010 Crl.L.J.3889.

24. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by, the
learned counsels of both the parties, I am going to dispose of the
case as follows.

25. After going through the evidence of the aforesaid witnesses,
it is seen except the victim, there is no eye witness to the incident,
but after the incident, the victim informed about the incident to her
mother and lateron in the next day to her father which are
corroborated.

According to PW 1,informant and father of the victim,
stated that on the day of<incident he was not at his house. Next day
he came back to his house from work. On arrival at home, he came
to know from his\wife and others that the accused Nisha had
committed misdeed on his daughter Miss “X”. On the day of the
incidentyswhen the local public asked the accused, then he
confessed» about his guilt. On being asked by him, _ his
daughter/victim informed him that the accused had committed rape
upon her. Though he stated that on the day of incident when the
local public asked the accused, the accused confessed his guilt but
he himself was absent on that day. However, he came to know
from his wife PW 2 who stated that accused and they resided at a
rented house under the same landlady. On the day of incident she
went to a house of their neighbor in the evening time. During that
time victim and other daughter was alone at their house. The other
daughter was in sick so she was in bed. Accused called both of her
daughters with a lure of giving money. As the little daughter

Gitanjali was in sick so she did not go there but the victim/daughter
Page 14 of 22

go to the room of the accused and accused committed rape on her.
She was also threatened not to disclose about the incident to them.
In the next day, in the evening her husband came and she reported
the incident to him. The brother of landlady told her that she has
not seen the incident. The landlady also told her that the incident
was witnessed by her brother. Then she turned hostile.

PW 3, the victim, stated that on the day of incident her
younger sister Gitanjali was suffering from illness but accused called
her to his house where accused by opening her pant fingering her
private parts and thereafter accused touched her whole body. The
accused also asked her not to disclose the matter to her»parents.
When her younger sister entered into the house of the accused by
searching her, Tinku, the son of landlady entered into the house of
Dadu (accused). In the house of Dadu“(accused), Dadu and his
sister was sleeping together in a bed. Tinku asked her whether
Dadu had committed any misdeed to”her. Then she reported to
Tinku that accused fingeringher ‘private parts. Then Tinku took out
Dadu to outside where many people gathered there and she also
reported the matter to local public that accused committed bad act
to her. Her evidence is corroborated with the statement made
before the police-u/s 161 Cr.P.C. and also before the learned
Magistrate u/s’/164 CR.P.C. Though she has been exposed to long
cross-examination but her evidence as to accused took her to his
house)»where by opening her pants fingering her private parts has
remained unchallenged.

26. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the
prosecution has failed to prove the age of the victim as they have
not been seized any school certificate or Birth certificate of victim to
ascertain the age. Therefore, the case cannot be stated to be fallen
under POCSO Act.

27. —Itis true that in the present case there is no documents like
Birth certificate or age certificate or any certificate issued by the
School authority where the victim last studied or any certificate

issued by local Panchayat etc. to prove the victim that she was 12/
Page 15 of 22

13 years at the time of incident. But the PW 9, the Doctor stated
that the actual age of the victim appears to be not above 16 years,
The victim was examined before this court on 02-08-2017. On that
day, according to her statement, her age was 12 years. The incident
took place on 19-04-2017. Therefore, from her statement it appears
that at the relevant time she was about 12 years of age. That has
not been challenged by defence at any point of time. Therefore, it
can safely be held that the victim was a minor.

28. In the case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs — State,
represented by the Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal. (MD)
No.98 of 2015, it was held that it is true that primary evidence to
prove the date of birth of the individual may be preferably the birth
certificate. But, it cannot be said that in absenceyof birth certificate,
the date of birth cannot be proved. When, the age of the individual
is not disputed, the question of proving the same does not arise at
all. It is the settled law that a fact in issue or any relevant fact or
any fact relevant to the issue, which is disputed by the adverse
party alone, needs proof. If itis not disputed, there is no need to
lead any evidence in proof of the said admitted fact.

29. In this case, the victim and her parents categorically stated
the age of the victim was about 12 years from the very beginning of
the case; at the time of commission of offence, besides during
cross-examination, the same has not been disputed at all by the
accused side. Thus, the evidence of PWs 1, 2, 3 and 9 in respect of
age of the victim remains unchallenged.

30. In the case in hand, the victim has been consistent on the
material particulars with regard to the incident that on the day of
incident, while her younger sister was ill so she slept in their room
accused called her to his room, accused by opening her pant
fingering her private parts thereby committed sexual assault to her.
While her younger sister entered into the house of the accused in
searching her, Tinku Mandal, the son of their landlady also entered.
On being found the accused and younger sister of the victim in a

same bed, he took out the accused to the outside and asked the
Page 16 of 22

victim, the victim reported about the incident to him. The victim
also made such statement before the learned Magistrate u/s 164
Cr.P.C. which was confirmed by learned Magistrate (PW 11). She
has also made such statement before the I.0. while her statement
was recorded u/s 161 Cr.P.C. Though the victim has been vigorously
cross-examined by the learned counsel for the accused but the
evidence as to while her younger sister was ill so she slept in their
room, accused called her to his room where accused by opening her
pant fingering her private parts has remained unchallenged. There
is nothing in the evidence of the PWs that the accused. had any
enmity or quarrel with the complainant to file the case falsely
against the accused. Therefore, defence of false allegation is not
made out.

31. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in State of Rajasthan Vs.
Babu Muna (2013) 4 SCC 206, has observed as under :-

“9. We do not have any slightest hesitation in accepting the

broad submission of Mr. Jainsthat the conviction be based on the
sole testimony of the prosecutrix, it found to be worthy of credence
and reliable and for that no corroboration is required. It has often
been said that oral\testimony can be clarified into three categories,
namely, (i) wholly reliable, (ii) whole unreliable and (iii) neither
wholly reliable’ nor wholly unreliable. In case of wholly reliable
testimony of single witness, the conviction can be found without
corroboration. This principle applies with greater in terms in case
the nature of offence is such that it is committed in seclusion. In
case prosecution is based on wholly unreliable testimony of single
witness but the court has no option to acquit the accused.”
32. | Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse on the part of
accused is not leading any defence evidence would not have
mattered much as prosecution is supposed to prove its case beyond
shadows of all reasonable doubts. However, in a case under POCSO
Act, the situation is not so. In this regard, it will be worthwhile to
refer to the provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.
Page 17 of 22

33. U/s. 29 of POCSO Act, a mandatory presumption for certain
offence is to be drawn against the accused in a prosecution for
certain offences and same reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is

prosecuted for committing or abetting or attempting to commit any
offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and
Section 9 of this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such
person has committed or abetted or attempted to commit the
offence, as the case may be, unless the contrary is proved.
34. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the
Special Court shall draw a presumption of the existence, of»culpable
mental state of the accused where culpable mental state is required
on the part of the accused. Section 30 reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any
prosecution for any offence under this-Act_which requires a culpable
mental state on the part of the accused, the Special Court shall
presume that existence of such mental state but it shall be a
defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such
mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that
prosecution.

(2) For-the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be

proved only.when the Special Court believes it to exist beyond
reasonable’doubt and not merely when its existence is established
by a preponderance of probabilities.
35: Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be
recorded on the sole testimony of a child witness or not? Such issue
was dealt by the Hon’ble Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of
U.P., (2008) 16 SCC, which are reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as
a determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On
the contrary, Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who
may testify — all persons shall be competent to testify unless the
Court considers that they are prevented from understanding the

questions put to them, or from giving rational answers to those
Page 18 of 22

questions, by tender years, extreme old age, disease, whether of
body or mind, or any other cause of the same kind.”

36. A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she
has intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational
answers thereto. The evidence of a child witness is not required to
be rejected per se, but the Court as a rule of prudence considers
such evidence with close scrutiny and only on being convinced
about the quality thereof and reliability can record conviction, based
thereon.

37. In Dattu) Ramrao Sakhare — Vs -— State of
Maharashtra, (1997) 5 SCC 341, it was held that.a child witness
if found competent to depose to the facts and reliable one such
evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other words, even in
the absence of oath the evidence ofa child witness can be
considered u/s.118 of the Evidence Act provided that such witness
is able to understand the questions and’able to give rational answer
thereof. The evidence of a«child witness and credibility thereof
would depend upon the ‘circumstances of each case. The only
precaution which theCourt should bear in mind while assessing the
evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a reliable
one and his/her-demeanour must be like any other competent
witness and*there is no likelihood of being tutored.

38. < \Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs
— State of Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the
decision on the question whether the child witness has sufficient
intelligence primarily rests with the trial Judge who notices his
manners, his apparent possessions or lack of intelligence, and the
said Judge may resort to any examination which will tend to
disclose his capacity and intelligence as well as his understanding of
the obligation of an oath.

39. Inthe present case, at the time of examination of the victim,
some questions were put to her and she replied the same without
any hesitation and after confirming the value of oath she was

administered oath then this court recorded her statement. Apart
Page 19 of 22

from that, other witnesses including the parents of the victim i.e.
PW 1 and 2 also supported the evidence of PW 3 (victim).

Here in the present case as discussed above, the evidence
as to on the day of incident while the victim and her younger sister
were in their house, their parents were absent, accused called the
victim to his house, younger sister of the victim was sleeping due to
illness in their house, the accused by opening her pant fingering her
private parts are supported by reporting witnesses PW 1 and 2.

40. On appreciation of the evidence given by the victim, her
parents and other independent witnesses i.e. PW 5, PW Zand PW 8
before whom accused confessed his guilt, it comes to.the conclusion
that it is the accused who attempt to commit sexual assault to the
victim. The doctor clearly stated that there is\no any sign and
symptoms of recent sexual intercourse and no, mark of violence was
seen on her body as well as in her private) parts. Therefore, I think
that the prosecution has failed to prove’ the ingredients of section 8
of the POCSO Act.

41. In regard to the age of'the victim, it appears that as stated
above, the victim as‘well as parents of the victim all were stated
that the victim is about 12 years of age but there is no documentary
proof as to herage. Under such circumstances, it cannot be sated
to be attempted to commit the offence of aggravated sexual
assault.

42.. »Considering the aforesaid aspect, the offence of the accused
cannot be stated to be attempted to commit aggravated sexual
assault but attempt to commit sexual assault. Therefore, accused
Sri Gajendra Das is acquitted from the alleged charge u/s 8 of the
POCSO Act but accused Sri Gajendra Das is convicted u/s 18 of the
POCSO Act.

43. The accused is heard on the point of sentence where he
praying for leniency stating that he has his wife and he is the only
bread earner of his family, hence, praying for leniency.

44. I have heard learned counsel for the accused as well as

learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur.
Page 20 of 22

45. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that
while deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court
should strike a balance between aggravating circumstances and
mitigating circumstances. The aggravating circumstances relate to the
crime and mitigating circumstances relate to the criminal. In this case,
so far as the aggravating circumstances are concerned, a minor girl
was sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is not only to the
body but also to the mind of not only to the victim but that of entire
family members, but considering the mitigating circumstances, the
accused was hardly 50 years of age at the time of the incident. It is
not brought to the notice of this Court that before.this incident, the
accused had committed any other offence. There is likelihood of his
reformation, but the statute u/s.18 of POCSO-Act,a)punishment for any
description provided for the offence, fora term which may extend to
one-half of the imprisonment for life‘or, as the case may be, one-half
of the longest term of imprisonment provided for that offence or with
fine or with both.
ORDER

46. I convict the-accused Sri Gajendra Das u/s. 18 of POCSO Act
and sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for one 10 (ten) months
and to pay a fine-of Rs. 200/- (Rupees two hundred only) in default
Rigorous-Iimprisonment for 2 (two) days.

It appears from the record that the accused has been in
custody since 20-04-2017.

The period, which he detained in custody, shall be set off from
the period of imprisonment, imposed on him.
47. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through the statement
of witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the compensation. To
mitigating the mental agony and trauma suffered by the victim, an
amount of Rs. 25,000/- (Rupees twenty five thousand) only is awarded
as compensation. The Secretary, District Legal Aid Services Authority,
Sonitpur, Tezpur be asked to give the compensation to the father of

the victim after proper enquiry.
Page 21 of 22

48. A copy of this Judgment be furnished to the accused free of
cost and a copy thereof be sent to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur,
Tezpur, as per provisions of law.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 22"
day of March, 2018

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika;,Steno
See Ao SY hp

PP

Page 22 of 22

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1 7. Sri Khagen Baishya, complainant
Prosecution Witness No.2 i Smt. Mamu Baishya,
Prosecution Witness No.3 ‘- Victim Miss X
Prosecution Witness No.4 te Miss Gitanjali Baishya,
Prosecution Witness No.5 ‘ Smt Bina Mandal,
Prosecution Witness No.6 = Sri Tinku Mandal,
Prosecution Witness No.7 ie Sri Deba Hazarika,
Prosecution Witness No.8 - Smti Kumkum Das,
Prosecution Witness No.9 - Dr. Amarjit Kaur, M.O.,
Prosecution Witness No.10 - Sri Ranjit Borah, I.O.,
Prosecution Witness No.11 = Miss Aklima Begum, Judl. Magistrate.
EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 1 - Ejahar
Exhibit 2 :- Medical report,
Exhibit 3 :- Vaginal smear report.
Exhibit 4 :- X-rayyreport
Exhibit 5 :- Advice slip
Exhibit 6 :- Sketch map
Exhibit 7 :- Prayer for recording statement 164 Cr.P.C.
Exhibit 8 :-» Charge sheet
Exhibit 9 :- Case diary of Tezpur PS Case No. 703/17.
Exhibit 9 :- statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Exhibit 10 :- statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Exhibit.41 :- statement of Tinku Mandal.
Exhibit.12 :- Order of learned CJM, Sonitpur,
Exhibit 13 : - Order of learned CJM, Sonitpur,

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
