Page 1 of 13

IN THE COURT OF SESSIONS JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SESSIONS CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

46 of 2018

(Under Section 366(A) of the IPC, arisim
of G.R. Case No. 725 of 2018)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Sessions Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

=-VS-
1. Sri Bipul Dey,
Sonof Sri Narayan Dey,
Resident of Patidoi Bherela
Police*Station — Missamari
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam.

15/03/2018

29/03/2018 , 21/04/2018
& 20/08/2018

15/12/2018

21/12/2018

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Smti S. Das, Advocate.
Page 2 of 13

JUDGMENT
1. In this case accused Sri Bipul Dey is put for trial for allegation of
charge u/s 366(A) of the IPC.
2. The facts leading to institution of this case, according to the FIR

in brief is that on or about 5 p.m. of 22-02-2018 informant Swapan
Chaki was informed by the Thelamara police station stating that his 16
years old niece was kept at their police station. In the mean time while
he reached the Thelamara Police station came to know that on or.about
4.30 p.m. accused took her in a bike near Kali Mandir ofLakupara
forcefully by threatening her. To safe her from the clutches of the
accused near the centre bridge of Thelamara at.about 4.30 p.m. she
jumped. Thereafter, nearby people caught accused and hand over to
the police. Hence, this prosecution scase.. The ejahar was filed by
informant Sri Swapan Chaki on 22-02-2018 before the O/C of Missamari

Police Station.

3. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the O/C Missamari police
station registered a,case vide Missamari P.S. Case No. 30/18 u/s 366 (A)
of IPC read with.section 18 of POCSO Act. After completion of usual
investigation, the O/C of Missamari Police Station filed charge sheet u/s
366(A).of IPC against the accused Sri Bipul Dey.

4. On ‘being appeared the accused person before this Court, after
commitment of the record, after hearing both parties, framed charge u/s
366(A) of the IPC against the accused Sri Bipul Dey. Particulars of the
charge was read over and explained to the accused to which he pleaded

not guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined 7 numbers of
witnesses in this case. After completion of prosecution witnesses,
statement of the accused is recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All the allegations

and evidence appears against the accused are put before him for his

 
Page 3 of 13

explanation where he denied the allegation and declined to adduce

defence evidence.

6. I have also heard the argument put forward by the learned

counsels of both sides.
I. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether the accused person on or about 4 p.m. 22-
02-2018 at Lakhupara near Kalimondir under Missamari
PS induced the victim, a minor girl under the-age of 18
years to go from her house or to do any act or acts with
the intent that she may be (or knowing that it is likely
that said victim will be) forced (or.seduced) to illicit
intercourse with him and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 366(A) of the IPC?”

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence

on record.

9. PW 1, Sri Swapan\Chaki, the complainant of this case, stated
that the occurrence took place on 22-02-2018. On that day, at about 4
p.m. victim whowis*his niece, aged about 16 years, informed him over
phone thatone boy namely Bipul Dey kidnapped her. Then he went to
Thelamaraspolice station. There he met his niece/victim and accused.
She,told him that when accused called her to school then she came out.
Accused took her in a bike with intent to take her to her school but
without dropping her at the school forcefully took her towards village.
While the victim raised alarm asking accused to drop her but as there
were no other persons so none has come to help her. At Thelamara at
last she jumped from the bike and she sustained injury. People gathered
there and handed over them to police of Thelamara. In the Thelamara
police station in his presence and many persons accused confessed that

he loved the girl so he took the girl. Then he lodged the ejahar before

 
Page 4 of 13

the O/C Missamari PS. Ext. 1 is the said ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is his
signature. The ejahar was written by one scribe Shyamanta Das as per
his dictation. Next day, victim was examined medically and she was
brought to the court for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

Thereafter, the victim was handed over to them.

In cross-examination, he admitted that the father of the victim is
still alive. She stays with her parents. The victim boarded the bike of the
accused to drop her at school. He does not know whether inthe FIR he
has written that accused took his niece on his bike with.intent*to drop
her at school. The distance between Lakhupara i.e. the place of
occurrence and Thelamara is about 12 km. Insbetween, Lakhupara and
Thelamara there are about two villages. There were about 1200 families
reside in both the village. In between Lakhupara and Thelamara there
are only one centre namely Bashbera. There was a shop owned by

Phukan Chaki in the place of occurrence;

10. PW 2 Sri Phukan Chaki, who turned hostile. The unhostile
portion of his evidence is that the occurrence took place on 22-02-2018
at about 4 p.m. On 21-02-2018 accused Bipul Dey came to his shop
along with four note.books and 2/3 numbers of keys and gave him it to
hand over*the same to the victim girl. According to the direction of
accused); heshas handed over the note books and keys to the victim girl.
On. 22-02-2018 at about 4 p.m. when victimi went to school then
accused arrived there and asked her to board his bike. He (PW 2) told
the victim to seat in the motor cycle as he is going towards her school.
Thereafter, he came to know that accused Bipul did not stop his bike in
the school but he proceed towards Thelamara. So the victim girl jumped

from the bike. Victim told him that she loved the accused.

In cross-examination by defence, he stated that victim
accepted the note books and keys offered by accused Bipul Dey. He has

not heard any scolding made by Bipul Dey to victim. He has not seen in

 
Page 5 of 13

which side accused took victim in his bike. He does not have any

personal knowledge about the happenings in their way side.

11. PW 3 Kartik Debnath stated that the occurrence took place on
22-02-2018 at about 3/4 p.m. During that time he was at his shop. He
saw accused taking the victim in his bike throughout the road opposite
his shop. Victim belongs to his village. She was about 16 years. Then he
heard that when the accused took victim she was jumped from running
bike of the accused Bipul Dey. Nearby people handed over. the victim
and accused to the police. Then he rushed to the police station and saw

the accused and the victim there.

In cross-examination, he has not heard.anything from victim girl.
He has no any personal knowledge about'the ‘happenings in their way

side.

12. PW 4 Sri Subudh Sarkar,.stated that occurrence took place on
22-02-2018. On that day,vat about 8.30 p.m., he came to know from
one neighbor that one.girl_ namely, Miss X was taken away by Bipul Dey.
Then he rushed to thexhouse of the victim and met the victim there.
There he came to, know from the victim that she has been taken to a
place under. Thelamara PS by accused Bipul Dey in a bike and out of
fear victim.jumped from the bike as a result, she sustained injury on her
knee.\Then neighbouring people caught the accused and victim and
handed.over them to Thelamara PS. The victim is a student of Missamari

High School at the time of incident.

In cross-examination, he admitted that Swapan Chaki is the
elder uncle of victim. They are co-villagers. Today, victim, Swapan Chaki
and he himself came to the court together by Bus. He came to know
that Swapan Chaki deposed before the court earlier. He does not know
from where and in what condition accused Bipul Dey taken the victim
girl and does not know how and where victim sustained injury on her

knee.

 
Page 6 of 13

13. PW 5, victim Miss X, who stated that the occurrence took place
on 22-02-2018. On that day, at about 3 p.m., when she was sitting in
the house of her uncle, her uncle asked her to go to Dighaldol LP school
to meet Tarun Nath for some lessons to be taught there. At that time
accused Bipul Dey was standing near their gate. As per suggestion of
her uncle, she went near the accused whether there will be class at
Digholdol LP School or not. Then she confirmed from accused Bipul Dey
that class will be started at Digholdol LP school. Thereafter, as per
direction of the accused she took her Identity Card and became ready to
go to Digholdol LP school to attend the class. Thereafter, she went to
Digholdol LP school. On the way near Kalimandir accused stopped his
bike near her and asked her to board in his ‘bikevas.he will also go to
same school. She told him that she is ablesto go on foot. Then accused
forcefully got up her in his bike. Onsthe way, the accused did not stop
his bike near the school and rode his bike,in high speed towards garden
which she did not know. When) the bike reached near Thelamara she
could know about the location of Thelamara and out of fear she jumped
from the bike and sustained injury on her knee. When she reached
Thelamara she repeatedly told him to stop his bike and got her down
but he did not.doso.. Then she cried but it was no effect so she jumped
from the bike. On hearing of her crying nearby people gathered there
and caught the accused and the accused along with her handed over to
Thelamara Police station. There she informed about the incident to her
parents over a mobile phone which is taken from one boy. Thelamara
Police took her to nearby hospital for medical examination. Thereafter
her parents took her to the house. Police brought her to the court for
recording statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Ext. 2 is her statement recorded u/s
164 Cr.P.C. and Ext. 2(1) and 2(2) are her signatures. During
investigation police has also collected photo copies of her Birth
certificate and Admit Card of Board of Secondary. Her date of birth is
18-11-2000.

 
Page 7 of 13

In cross-examination, she admitted that she does not know the
registration number of the bike where accused took her at the relevant
time. She knows that Bipul Dey is by profession carpenter. There are no
houses on the side of the road by which Bipul Dey took her in his bike.
Accused took her near the Kalimandir and near the Kalimandir there is a
house of Basanta Das. In the eastern side of Kalimandir there is a
grocery shop of her uncle Phukan Chaki. There is no any person namely
Abir Chaki resides. She has not made statement before the, learned
Magistrate and also before the I.O. about the speed of the bikeswhen

accused took her.

14. PW 6 Sri Upen Sarmah, the Investigating Officer of this case,
stated that on 22-02-2018 he was posted‘as*2™ Officer at Missamari
Police station. On that day, he was incharge of the Missamari Police
station. On that day one SwapaneChaki lodged an ejahar before the
police station. On receipt of thexejahar, he himself as incharge of the
Missamari Police station registered.a case being Missamari PS case No.
30/18 u/s 366 (A) of the IPC read with section 18 of the POCSO Act and
himself taken the charge of investigation of the case. Ext. 1 is the ejahar
and Ext. 1(3) is his signature. On 23-02-2018 he visited the place of
occurrence “and‘prepared the sketch map of the place of occurrence.
Ext. 3,is the sketch map and Ext. 3(1) is his signature. He has also
recorded the statement of witnesses, namely, Subudh Sarkar, Phukan
Chaki- and Kartik Debnath. On that day also he has recorded the
statement of the victim and statement of the accused. On 22-02-2018
he has also seized one motor cycle being Registration No. AS 12 S 9260
from the accused Bipul Dey in presence of witnesses. Ext. 4 is the
seizurelist and Ext. 4(1) is his signature. Thereafter, the seized motor
cycle was given zimma to one Narayan Dey. He has sent the victim girl
to the learned Magistrate for recording her statement u/s 164 CR.P.C.
One birth certificate and one Admit Card of victim were given by the

victim to him during investigation where the date of the birth of the

 
Page 8 of 13

victim is on 18-11-2000 and after completion of usual investigation,
finding sufficient materials against the accused, I have filed chargesheet
against the accused Bipul Dey u/s 366(A) of IPC. Ext. 6 is the
chargesheet vide chargesheet No. 13/18 dated 28-02-2018 and Ext. 6(1)

is his signature.

In cross-examination, he admitted that though he sent the
victim for medical examination but the victim and her parents refused to
examine private parts of the victim so, the victim was not,examined by
doctor to ascertain her age. During investigation, the victim ‘and her
guardian submitted him photocopies of age certificate‘and Admit Card
on the basis of which he has filed chargesheetsagainst.the accused u/s
366(A) of the IPC. The distance between theKalimondir and Thelamara
bridge i.e. the place of occurrence is about.15 km. There are villages of
3/ 4 in between Kalimondir and»Thelamara bridge i.e. the place of

occurrence.

15. PW 7 Smti Sparsita Garg, stated that on 23-02-2018 she was
posted as Judicial Magistrate,)1° class, Sonitpur, Tezpur and on that day
in reference to Special POCSO Case No. 14/18 a minor girl namely, Miss
X, aged about.16 years, D/O Sri Shiv Prasad Chaki of village Lakupara
under Missamari) PS was produced before her for recording her
statement. The said victim was escorted and identified by WPC 633
Jonali, Gogoi. She has examined the witness in her court Chamber. At
the time of recording her statement other than her and the victim none
was there. The victim made statement voluntarily. After recording her
statement, she has read over the contents of the statement and on
acceptance she put signature thereon. Ext 2 is the statement of said
victim and Ext. 2(3) is her signature. Ext. 8 is her order dated 23-02-
2018 and Ext. 8(1) is her signature.

She admitted in cross-examination that the victim did not state

in her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. that at that time accused Bipul Dey was

 
Page 9 of 13

standing near her gate, then she confirmed from accused Bipul Dey that

class will be started at Dighaldol LP school.

16. These are the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence plea is

total denial while his statement is recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C.

17. Learned Public Prosecutor for the state submitted that the

prosecution has ably proved the case beyond any reasonable doubt.

18. On the other hand, learned counsel for the accused submitted
that the prosecution has failed to prove the charge against the accused
beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly, other than the victim none is the
eye witness of the occurrence. Secondly, the ‘age_of the victim is
suspicious though victim herself stated in hersstatement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
that she was about 16 years of age but her parents has failed to submit
the original birth certificate of the victim. The I.0. himself admitted that
during the investigation he has collected the photo copy of birth
certificate but it is not that he after seeing the original, received the
photo copy of the birth certificate in the record. Therefore, date of bith
as mentioned in the photo copy of the birth certificate cannot be
reliable. Besides that, victim was refused to examine through the doctor
to ascertain. her. age. Therefore, the age of the victim as stated by
complainant and victim is doubtful. Thirdly, according to Phukan
Chaki»p.PW..2, who is victim's own uncle (as admitted by victim in her
cross-examination) he was reported by victim that she loved the
accused. Therefore, though the victim stated that she was forcefully
taken by the accused in his bike to drop her at school but she willingly
boarded in the bike of the accused. Had the victim been forcefully taken
by the accused in his bike she could have raised alarm. There are many
public and pedestrian in the road from the place where he was alleged
to be taken to the place where she jumped from the bike. Had she
protested on the way she could have easily safe from the clutches of the

accused but she did not do so. Therefore, forcefully taking her by the

 
Page 10 of 13

accused is not proved. Lastly, there is no any iota of evidence that
accused took her forcefully or seduced to illicit intercourse. Under such

circumstances, the accused is required to be acquitted.

19. Keeping in mind the rival submissions advanced by learned

counsel of both the parties, I am going to dispose the case as follows:

20. Since the case is charged u/s 366(A) of IPC against the accused,
to brought the charge under section 366(A) of the IPC, prosecution
must prove that —

“(i) that the accused induced a girl;

(ii) that the girl was under 18 years of age;

(iii) that the girl was induced to go from_any place to do any act,

and

(iv) that the accused did as abovewwith intent that such girl may

be, or knowing that it is likely that she will be forced or seduced

to illicit intercourse with another person.”

21. A close scrutiny of the record, it appears that to substantiate the
case has examined 7 numbers of witnesses. Out of 7 numbers of
witnesses two i.e. PW°6.and.7 are official witnesses and there remained
5 un official witnesses. Out of the said five numbers of un official
witnesses, PW 2 whoris the own uncle of the victim turned hostile. It is
a fact,that other than allegation of forcefully taking the victim by
accused there is only eye witness i.e. the victim herself.

22.~Let us see the evidence of victim how she proved the
prosecution case against the accused.

As stated above, according to the victim on the day of incident,
at about 3 p.m., when she was sitting in the house of her uncle, her
uncle asked her to go to Dighaldol LP school to meet Tarun Nath for
some lessons to be taught there. During that time accused Bipul Dey
was standing near their gate. As per suggestion of her uncle, she went
near the accused whether there will be class at Digholdol LP School or
not. Then she confirmed from accused Bipul Dey that class will be

started at Digholdol LP school. Thereafter, as per direction of the

 
Page 11 of 13

accused she took her Identity Card and became ready to go to Digholdol
LP school to attend the class. Thereafter, she went to Digholdol LP
school. On the way near Kalimandir accused stopped his bike near her
and asked her to board in his bike as he will also go to same school.
Though initially she refused to go with the accused but ultimately
according to her accused forcefully got up her in his bike. But on the
way, the accused did not stop his bike near the school rather rode his
bike in high speed towards garden. When the bike reached near
Thelamara she could know about the location of Thelamara and ‘out of
fear she jumped from the bike as a result she sustained injury on her
knee. It is a fact that accused is known to her for a longtime. Though
she stated that accused forcefully took her_in his\bike but there is no
any other evidence that she was taken\by\accused forcefully. For
argument sake, if it is believe that accused really forcefully taken her in
his bike she could refused to accompany with him. It is not that she was
forcefully taken in the bike at‘the point of dagger or such weapon or any
threatening even she has not. desire to go with the accused, she could
have raised alarm on.the way, to the place of jumping from the place of
her boarding near Kali Mondir but she did not do so. There is an ample
opportunity toxraise»protest within 15 km journey but she did not do so.
Secondly, ifthe accused is stranger to victim, she could not receive the
notebook and keys which were given by the accused to Subudh Sarkar
to-hand*over to her. Thirdly, the evidence of PW 2 who is the own uncle
ofthe victim stated that victim told him that she loved the accused.
Therefore, taking forcefully or induced the victim to go from a place or
do an act does not arise. Fourthly, according to the victim, accused took
her near the Kalimandir and near the Kalimandir there is a house of
Basanta Das. In the eastern side of Kalimandir there is a grocery shop of
her uncle Phukan Chaki. But the I.0. has failed to examine any of the
family members of Basanta Das. However, the I.0. has examined the
victim’s own uncle Phukan Chaki who has a grocery shop near

Kalimondir but said Phukan Chaki has turned hostile. As stated above,

 
Page 12 of 13

his unhostile portion of evidence is that he was reported by victim that
she loved the accused. Therefore, the unhostile portion of evidence of
PW who is not also prosecution witness and also own uncle of the
victim. There is no any evidence that PW 2 has any enmity with the
complainant or with the victim to disbelieve the unhostile portion of
evidence of PW 2.

Lastly, the age of the victim cannot be ascertained by way of
giving cogent evidence because, the victim was not medically examined
to ascertain her age and the I.O. has collect only the photo copy ‘of the
birth certificate of the victim. Therefore, the age of the victim’‘as stated
by prosecution as under 18 years is also not proved.

23. | Under such circumstances, the statement of the victim cannot be
found reliable, convincing and trustworthy ‘to convict the accused in the
alleged charge. Hence, the prosecution has failed to prove charge
levelled against the accused beyond any reasonable doubt. As such, the
accused Sri Bipul Dey is acquitted from the charge u/s 366(A) of the IPC
and set him at liberty forthwith.

24. ‘The liability of.the bailor is hereby discharged.

Send back the.GR Case record being No. 725/18 to the learned
committal court along, with a copy of this order.

Given‘under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 21% day
of December, 2018.

(A.K. Borah)
SESSIONS JUDGE,

SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(A.K. Borah)
SESSIONS JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR
Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

(R. Hazarika), Steno.

 
Page 13 of 13

A-N-N-E-X-U-R-E

1. Witnesses for Prosecution

PW 1
PW 2
PW 3
PW 4
PW 5
PW 6
PW 7

: Sri Swapan Chaki, complainant
: Sri Phukan Chaki

: Sri Kartik Debnath

: Sri Subudh Sarkar,

: Victim Miss X

: Sri Upen Sharma, I.O.

: Sparsita Garg, JMFC, Tezpur.

2. Prosecution Exhibits:

Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.
Ext.

ON AYU, KR W NY

:- Ejahar.

:- 264 °Cr.P.C. statement of the victim
:- sketch map

» Seizurelist

: Prayer.

Charge sheet.
case diary of Missamari PS No. 13/18.
order dt. 23-02-2018 of JMFC, Tezpur.

(A.K. Borah)
SESSIONS JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR

 
