CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 49/15

Informant: — Sri Sangita Rabidas,
W/o- Late Sunil Rabidas,
R/o- Khowang Bagan, Near Old Post Office,
PS- Khowang,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Amit Kalondi @ Neula,
S/o- Late Jiten Kalondi,
R/o- Khowang Bagan, Near Old Post Office,
PS- Khowang,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-
For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. A Rob, learned Legal Aid Counsel.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 49/15
G.R. Case No. 1199/15

State of Assam
‘i Vs-

Sri Amit Kalondi @ Neula

Charges: Under Section 6 read with Section 5(m) POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 28-06-16, 14-09-16, 03-11-16, 27-03-17, 31-05-17 &

23-06-17.

Date of argument : 07-07-17.
Date of Judgment —_: 04-08-17.

1)

2)

3)

JUDGMENT

The factual matrix of this case in compendium is that on 08-05-15, at about
4:00 pm, Sri Amit Kalondi @ Neula (hereinafter the accused) committed rape
on the three and half year old victim X. After the incident, the accused fled.
An ejahar regarding this incident was lodged by the victim's mother Smti.
Sangita Rabidas (hereinafter the complainant). The ejahar was registered as
Khowang PS Case No. 21/15 under Sections 376(2)(f) of the Indian Penal
Code (IPC in short) read with Section 4 of the Protection of Chidren from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter the POCSO Act). The SI Pratap Sena
was endorsed with the investigation.

The investigating officer (IO in short) swung into action and embarked upon
the investigation. He forwarded the victim to the Magistrate for recording her
statement under Section 164 of the Code of Criminal Procedure (CrPC in
short). He also forwarded the victim to the medical officer (MO in short) for
medical examination. He recorded the statements of the victim and other
witnesses. He went to the place of occurrence and prepared the Sketch-Map.
On finding prima facie materials against the accused, he submitted Charge-
Sheet under Section 376(2)(f) IPC read with Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished and after hearing both
4)

5)

6)

7)

8)

9)

the sides, a formal charge under Section 6 read with Section 5 of the POCSO
Act was framed by my learned predecessor and the particulars of the offence
was read over and explained to the accused. The accused abjured his guilt
and claimed innocence.
To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of eleven
witnesses including the MO and the IO and also exhibited several documents.
The defence cross-examined the witnesses to refute the charges.
The accused was questioned on every incriminating circumstances against
him. However, his plea was of total denial. He did not tender any evidence in
defence.
SUBMISSIONS:
The learned Public Prosecutor Smt. Runumi Devi submitted that this is an
open and shut case as there is clinching evidence against the accused. She
has emphatically submitted that considering the diabolical nature of this case,
stringent punishment ought to be inflicted on the accused. On the other
hand, the learned defence counsel Mr. A Rob submitted that the victim and
the star witness failed to incriminate that the accused had committed
penetrative sexual assault on the victim X.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:

On the backdrop of the rival proponements urged at the bar, the following
points are apposite for determination:

1. Whether the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on

the minor victim X?
DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:

To decide the case in its right perspective, it is necessary to delve into the
evidence.
The important witnesses of this case are the victim X and her sister Smti.

Priya Rabidas.

10) The victim deposed as PW-6. Several questions were asked to the victim and

after assessment of the answers of the victim, her evidence was recorded
with a remark that the victim could give rational answers. The victim was a
student of Class-KG when she gave her evidence. Oath was not administered,
because it was apparent that she was a minor being a student of Class-KG.
My learned predecessor assessed the age of the victim to be around 5 or 6

years.
11) The victim X stated that the accused is known to her. At the time of the
occurrence, she was staying with her mother and sister at Bagan Tiniali in
Khowang. On the day of the incident, her mother went out for work and she
was in the house with her elder sister Priya. As she was not well, she was
Sleeping. At that time, the accused came and removed her panty and touched
her private part and did something with her leg.

12)The Court noted down the observation that the child could not properly
describe the act of the accused.

13) PW-6 further stated that she cried out loudly and hearing her cries, her elder
sister came in and the accused fled away. Then she narrated the incident to
her mother. As she sustained injury on her body, her mother took her to the
hospital. She sustained injuries on her private part, hand and legs. She was
examined by the doctor at Assam Medical College & Hospital, Dibrugarh. She
narrated about the incident to the police and also to the Magistrate. Her
cross-examination is not noteworthy.

14) The evidence of the PW-6 is supported and corroborated by the evidence of
her elder sister Smti. Priya Rabidas. She gave her statement as PW-5. She
was questioned by the Court for assessment of her intelligence and after
assessment of her answers, it was held that she could give rational answers.
She gave her age as 10 years and so oath was not administered and her
statement was recorded. Priya Ravidas mentioned in her statement as PW-5
that the accused Neula is known to her. It is apt to mention at this stage that
the accused Sri Amit Kalondi's other name is Neula. On the day of the
incident, she returned home from school in the evening and after taking her
meal, she went outside to wash the utensils. At that time, her younger sister
X was sleeping on the bed as she was not well. When she came in, she
noticed Neula was lying atop her younger sister with his pant removed. She
also noticed that her younger sister was crying and asking the accused to go
and her younger sister was saying 4a... Ja..." Then she immediately went to
the owner's house to inform about the incident. The owner returned with a
stick and by the time, the accused fled away. At the time of the incident, she
was alone at home with her younger sister, because her mother was out on
work. She informed about the incident to the accused person’s sister. After a
while, her mother returned from work and she also informed her mother

about the incident. Her mother took her younger sister for treatment as her
sister sustained injuries on her body. On the same day, she, her younger
sister and her mother went to the police station. She was also forwarded to
the Magistrate for recording her statement.

15) In her cross examination, she stated that she did not inform about the
incident to Sitaram who was the owner of their rented house.

16) At this stage, it is pertinent to mention that both the sisters did not state that
the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on X. It is true that the
accused removed his trousers and he climbed atop X's body, but both X and
her sister did not describe the act of the accused with clarity. At the same
time, it is evident that the accused sexually harassed the victim, because his
trousers were removed at the time and he suffocated the victim and she also
sustained injuries as a result of the incident.

17) The evidence of PW-5 & 6 is supported and corroborated by their mother’s
evidence. Smti. Sangita Rabidas is the victim's mother and she testified as
PW-7 that the incident occurred about a year back, after a month of her
husband's death. At that time, they were staying in a rented house let out by
the owner Sri Sitaram Ravidas at Bagan Tiniali. On the day of the incident,
she went out for work and her daughters X and Priya were alone in the
house. She returned home at about 5:30 P.M. and her landlord Sitaram
informed her that the accused went to her house in an inebriated state and
committed rape on her daughter X in her house. At that time, she noticed
that her daughter was weeping in a corner of the room and her elder
daughter informed her that the accused committed misdeed with her
daughter while her daughter X was sleeping on the bed as she was not well.
She noticed that her daughter was weeping and she noticed blood stains on
her daughter's panties and injury on her private parts. Then she took her
daughter to the Khowang TE Hospital, but the doctor forwarded her to the
government dispensary. She went to the Khowang Dispensary, but the doctor
refused to provide treatment to her daughter and asked her to inform the
Khowang Police Station. She went to the Khowang Police Station along with a
person from the Khowang Tea Estate and lodged an FIR with the police
narrating the incident. Then she again came to the Khowang Dispensary
where the doctor provided first aid treatment to her daughter. On the next
morning, she went to Khowang Police Station where police recorded her

statement along with her daughter’s statement. Her daughter was forwarded
to the Assam Medical College and Hospital, Dibrugarh for medical
examination. On the next day, the police took her daughter to the Magistrate
for recording her statement. Her daughter was 7 years at the time of the
incident. She handed over the frock and panty worn by her daughter to the
police. Her landlord Sitaram died about a month ago.

18) In her cross examination, she stated that she learnt about the incident from
Sitaram Rabidas. The FIR was written by a person at Khowang Police Station
and she did not know the name of the scribe.

19) The evidence of PW-7 is fortified by the evidence of the medical officer Dr.
Nibedita Shyam. She testified as PW-4 that on 09-05-15, she examined the
victim X who was brought for medical examination in connection with this
case. The victim was accompanied by a woman constable and her mother.

20) The case history recorded by her was that and victim's mother informed her
that on 08-05-15, at about 4 p.m., the victim X was sleeping in the house,
because she was not well and her elder sister was washing dishes on the
back yard. At that time, the accused entered into their house and had sexual
intercourse with the victim. The accused pulled the girl to the floor from the
bed and forcefully had sexual intercourse with her and her elder sister Priya
Rabidas saw her sister crying and then the accused fled away.

21) The medical officer PW-4 further testified that her findings were as follows:
On genital examination: Genital organs are well developed. Vulva
is healthy. Hymen tear present at 6 O’ clock position. Margins of
which are reddened and oedematus and tender on touch. No
active bleeding seen. Vagina is healthy and rugosed. Vaginal
smears were taken on glass slides from around the vagina. The
result of which does not show any spermatozoa.

22) On the basis of physical examination, radiological and laboratory investigation

done on the victim, the doctor was of the opinion that:

1. Evidence of recent sexual intercourse not detected on her
person. However, findings are suggestive of forceful vaginal
penetration;

2. Evidence of injury detected on her private parts as described in
20(c) and age of the injury was approximately 12-24 hours.

3. Her age was 4-5 years at the time of examination.

23) The evidence of PW-7 and PW-4(MO) is also supported and corroborated by
the evidence of PW-1. The Scientific Officer of the Directorate of Forensic
Science, Kahilipara, Guwahati, Sri Sankar Chandra Rabha testified as PW-1
that on 19-05-15, he found a parcel sent through Director in connection with
Khowang PS Case No. 21/15 under section 376(2)(f) read with Section 4 of
the POCSO Act. The parcel was sealed and consisted of a large sized paper
envelope consisting of three exhibits and sealed by the Additional
Superintendent of Police, Dibrugarh. After opening the parcel, he found the
following:
1. One multi coloured half pant contains stain of suspected
semen. Serial No. 1 MR No. 29/15. MR No. Sero 3512/A;
2. One pink colour panty contains stain of suspected blood and
semen. Serial No. 2 MR No. 22/15. MR No. Sero 3512/B;
3. One multi coloured frock contains stain of suspected semen.
Serial No. 3 MR No. 22/15. MR No. Sero 3512/C
Result of examination:
1. Ext. No. Sero 3512/A Sero 3512/C, gave positive test for
human semen and negative test for blood;
2. Ext. No. Sero 3512/B gave positive test for human blood
and semen.
24)The evidence of PW-1, 4 & 7 is also supported and corroborated by the
evidence of the IO. SI Pratap Sena testified as PW-11 that on 08-05-15, he
was posted at Khowang Police Station as Attached Officer. On that day, the
complainant lodged an ejahar with the police which was registered as
Khowang PS Case No. 21/15 under section 376(2)(f) IPC read with section 4
of the POCSO Act and he was endorsed with the investigation by SI Raju
Gogoi. Ext. 6 is the FIR and Ext. 6(2) is the signature of SI Raju Gogoi which
is familiar to him. He recorded the statements of the complainant and the
victim girl X in the police station and forwarded the victim to Khowang PHC
for her medical examination. He also forwarded the victim X to the Magistrate
for recording her statement under section 164 CrPC. He went to the place of
occurrence and prepared the sketch map. Ext. 7 is the Sketch-Map and Ext.
7(1) is his signature. He found the accused person in the place of occurrence
and apprehended him and brought him to the police station. He forwarded
the accused person for medical examination. On 09-05-15, he forwarded the

victim to the Assam Medical College and Hospital, Dibrugarh for examination.
On that day, the victim was produced before the CWC, Dibrugarh. He also
seized the undergarments of the accused and the victim and recorded the
statements of the seizure witnesses. Ext. 2 is the Seizure List and Ext. 2(3) is
his signature. Ext. 8 is the Seizure List through which he seized the inner
garments and frock of the victim and Ext. 8(1) is his signature. Material Ext. 1
is the pink coloured panty of the victim and Material Ext. 2 is the white
coloured frock which he seized from the victim on being produced by the
victim’s mother Smti. Sangeeta Rabidas. Material Ext. 8 is the red and black
chequered underwear of the accused which he seized from the accused vide
Ext. 2 where Ext. 2(3) is his signature. He also recorded the statement of the
witness Priya Rabidas and forwarded her to the Magistrate for recording her
statement under section 164 CrPC. He recorded the statement of witnesses in
the place of occurrence. He forwarded the accused to the Court for recording
his confessional statement, but the accused denied to confess. He collected
the FSL Report from Guwahati and also the Medico Legal Report of the
victim. On finding prima facie materials, he submitted Charge-Sheet against
the accused. Ext. 9 is the Charge-Sheet and Ext. 9(1) is his signature.

25) It is clear from the evidence of the IO that he seized and undergarments of
the victim vide Ext. 8 where Ext. 8(1) is his signature. The undergarments
were seized in presence of the victim's mother who affixed her thumb
impression. Pink panty and white frock described in the Seizure-List were
exhibited in the Court. These exhibits were identified by the IO in the court
as Material Ext. 1 & 2. The Material Ext. 1 & 2 were forwarded to the
scientific officer which is described as item No. 2 and Serial No. 2 MR No.
22/15, Sero 3512/B and item No. 3 at Serial No. 3 MR No. 22/15 and Sero
No. 3512/C. The item No. 2 at Sero No. 3512/B, i.e., Pink panty and white
frock tested positive for human blood and semen.

26) The red checkered Hanes underwear of the accused person seized vide Ext.
2 was exhibited by the IO as Material Ext. 3 is identified by the scientific
officer PW-1 as item N. 1 at Serial No. 1 MR No. 29/15 and Sero No. 3512/A
and this item, i.e., red checkered underwear tested positive for human semen
and negative for blood.

27) Ext. 2 was seized by the IO in presence of witnesses Bhuban Ghatowar and
Soniram Rabidas. Bhuban Ghatowar testified as PW-8 and identified his
Signatue on the Seizure List as Ext. 2(1).
28) Bhuban Ghatowar testified that Sangeeta Rabidas was a tenant near his
house. The alleged incident took place about a year ago. On the day of the
incident, he heard from the neighbourers that the police apprehended the
accused in connection with the allegation of rape on the victim. During
investigation, the police seized the undergarments of the victim in his
presence and he affixed his signature on Ext. 2.

29) Similarly, Soniram Rabidas testified as PW-9 that the informant Sangeeta
Rabidas resides in a rented house in the same garden. The incident took
place about a year ago. During investigation, the police came to Sitaram's
house and he went there. Police seized some articles and he affixed his
signature on the Seizure List Ext. 2 and Ext. 2(2) is his signature.

30) Both the witnesses have testified in their cross-examination that they did not
see the seized articles in the court. The complainant also clearly testified that
she handed over her daughter’s frock and undergarments to the police. Thus,
it is clear from the evidence of PW-1, 7, 8, 9 & 10 that the articles which were
seized from the accused and the victim’s mother, tested positive for semen.
Thus, there is not even an iota of doubt that the victim was sexually
assaulted by the accused. Although the victim could not mention with clarity
what kind of act the accused committed with her leg, yet it is clear that there
was emission of semen after the act.
WHETHER THERE IS EVIDENCE OF PENETRATIVE SEXUAL ASSAULT?

31)The learned defence counsel emphatically submitted that the victim herself
did not mention with clarity that he accused penetrated his penis into her
vagina or inserted to any extent, any object or part of his body, into her
vagina.

32) It is true that the victim PW-6’s evidence does not depict that the accused
committed any type of penetrative sexual assault, yet the child stated that
the accused came into her room while she was sleeping on the bed and
removed his pant and touched her private part and did something on her leg.
In her statement under Section 164 CrPC, she stated before the Magistrate
that the accused entered into her room when her elder sister Priya went out
to wash utensils. At that time, she was sleeping, because she was not well
and was suffering from stomach ache. The accused who entered into her
room, removed her panty and gagged her and then he inserted his penis into

her vagina. Ext. 4 is the statement of the victim under Section 164 CrPC and
10

Ext. 4(1) is the signature of the Magistrate Smti. Dubari Dutta who recorded
her statement. Smti. Dubari Dutta testified as PW-10 that on 11-05-15, she
recorded the statement of the victim X in connection with this case. She
further testified that on 26-06-16, she recorded the statement of the other
witness Smti. Priya Rabidas in connection with this case, i.e., corresponding
to Khowang PS Case No. 21/15. Ext. 3 is the statement of Smti. Priya Rabidas
and Ext. 3(1) is her signature.

33) It is pertinent to mention at this juncture that when the Magistrate recorded
the statement of the victim X, the victim was 3 years and 6 months. When
the victim X deposed in the Court as PW-6, it was observed and noted down
by my learned predecessor that the victim appeared to be around 5-6 years
of age. This implies that the victim could not describe the act of the accused.
Considering her physical structure and her age, it is apparent that the victim
underwent an ordeal which was not discernible to her. She was under such
duress at the time of the incident that she could not perceive through her
senses the entire ordeal she underwent. In the Court, she described the
incident to the extent, she could perceive.

34) Her elder sister also testified in a similar manner as PW-5. Her evidence
depicts that she saw that Neula lying on the top of her sister’s body with his
pant removed. She also heard her younger sister crying and tried to push
away Neula. The statements of the witnesses PW-5 & 6 is consistent to their
statements under Section 164 CrPC. Moreover, the learned defence counsel
who confronted the witnesses failed to contradict their testimonies.

35)The medical officer has clearly testified as PW-7 that according to her
opinion, her findings are suggestive of forceful vaginal penetration. She
detected hymenal tear at 6 O’ clock position on genital examination of the
victim. The MO also detected margins on the hymen which were reddened
oedematus and tender on touch.

36)The medical officer testified as PW-7 that her findings are suggestive of
forceful vaginal penetration, but there is lack of evidence of recent sexual
intercourse.

37) Although sexual assault on the victim cannot be ruled out, yet sexual
intercourse on the victim was not detected. The victim herself did not state in
her evidence that there was sexual assault.

38) FSL Report is also indicative of an incident of sexual assault. The evidence of
11

PW-1 clearly depicts positive test for human blood and semen on the panty
belonging to the victim. There is also positive test for human semen on the
checkered underwear and white frock of the victim. The victim’s mother
testified as PW-7 that she handed over the victim's panty and frock to the
police. The IO testified as PW-11 of seizure of the victim’s panty and her
frock and also of seizure of the checkered underwear of the accused person.
The seizure witnesses PW-8 & 9 had testified about the seizure of articles
belonging to the victim in their presence. There is no doubt that the seizure
was meticulously conducted by the IO. However, the witnesses PW-8 & 9
have stated that they have not seen the articles in the Court. The learned
defence counsel laid stress in his argument that the independent witnesses
PW-8 & 9 did not identify the material exhibits in the Court. Although PW-8 &
9 could not identify the material exhibits in the Court, yet it cannot be ruled
out that the IO seized the underwear belonging to the victim and the accused
and the frock of the victim and forwarded the same to the FSL, Kahilipara,
Guwahati. There is clinching evidence that these articles were examined by
PW-1 Sri Sankar Chandra Rabha. The articles mentioned in the Seizure-Lists
Ext. 2 & 3 tally with the articles mentioned by PW-1 and identified as Sero
No. 3512/(B)(C) which tested positive for human semen. There is indeed
discrepancy in the trial when the prosecution failed to exhibited the seized
articles in the Court in presence of witnesses PW-8 & 9. This discrepancy
causes a dent in the evidence and also thwarts the evidence. However, there
is not even an iota of doubt that the victim X was sexually assaulted by the
accused, because semen was detected by PW-1 during examination of the
seized articles. The absence of spermatozoa does not cause a dent in the
evidence, because the delay in examination of the victim may destroy the
presence of spermatozoa at the time the evidence was placed before the
medical officer testing for presence of spermatozoa. The place of occurrence
depicted in the Sketch-Map Ext. 7 has been clearly described by the
complainant as PW-7 as well as by the victim and her elder sister Priya
Rabidas. It is clear from the Sketch-Map that Sitaram Rabidas is the
complainant's neighbour.

39) After scrutinizing the entire evidence, I have held the accused guilty of the
offence of sexual assault. The accused Sri Amit Kalondi @ Neula is not held

guilty of penetrative sexual assault, but he is held liable for the offence of
12

sexual assault, as the prosecution has proved the fact beyond reasonable
doubt. The alleged offence falls under the description of Section 3 of
the POCSO Act which envisages that-
"A person is said to commit "penetrative sexual assault" if—
(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth,
urethra or anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person; or
(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the body, not
being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or anus of the child or
makes the child to do so with him or any other person; or
(Cc) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so as to cause
penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of
the child or makes the child to do so with him or any other person;
or
(da) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus, urethra of the
child or makes the child to do so to such person or any other
person.

40)In the instant case, after scrutinizing the evidence and considering the
discrepancies portrayed by the learned defence counsel, the accused is not
held guilty of penetrative sexual assault, as described under Section 3 of the
POCSO Act.

41)I have considered the fact that the prosecution did not exhibit the
undergarments of the accused and the victim and the frock in the Court in
presence of the independent witnesses PW-8 & 9. I have considered the
evidence of the victim PW-6 and her elder sister Smti. Priya Rabidas. They
have not implicated the accused with clarity that he committed penetrative
sexual assault. Therefore, the point for determination has been considered
and it is decided that the accused did not commit penetrative sexual assault.
However, it has been proved beyond reasonable doubt that the accused
committed aggravated sexual assault on the victim. Sexual assault is
described under Section 7 of the POCSO Act as:

"Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis, anus or
breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina, penis,

anus or breast of such person or any other person, or does any
13

other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact
without penetration Is said to commit sexual assault.”

42) In the instant case, it has been proved beyond reasonable doubt
that the act of the accused person was with sexual intent and
involved physical contact. There is clinching evidence regarding
emission of semen in the evidence. the evidence of PW-1 confirms
the emission of semen at the time of the incident. This sexual intent
is prevalent in the evidence. Sexual assault turns into aggravated
sexual assault when a child below 12 years is sexually assaulted. It
is clearly described under Section 9(a) of the POCSO Act. Although
there is lapse of evidence regarding penetrative sexual assault, but
there is clinching evidence that the accused committed aggravated
sexual assault on the victim. The age of the victim at the time of the
incident as mentioned by the medical officer on Ext. 1 is
approximately 4 to 5 years on the basis of physical, radiological and
laboratory investigation. The age of the injury detected according to
column 23 in Ext. 1 was within 12-24 hours. The learned Magistrate
has also noted down the age of the victim as three years six months
when she recorded the statement of the victim under Section 164
CrPC vide Ext. 4. By virtue of Section 222(2) of the CrPC, the offence
is scaled down to Section 10 of the POCSO Act.

43)I have heard the accused on the question of sentence. The accused has
prayed for leniency. Considering the facts and circumstance of the case and
considering the age of the victim, it is held that the offence is of diabolical
nature. The accused deserves a deterrent punishment, because the offence
committed on the victim who was below five years of age, depicts the
perversity of the accused which requires deterrence to discourage the act of
such nature and also prevention of an act of such a nature in future. An
exemplary punishment of this nature will send out a message to the society
at large. I have also considered the age and antecedent of the accused. the
accused is a young led of 25 (twenty-five) years.

SENTENCE:

44) The accused Sri Amit Kalondi @ Neula is convicted under Section 10 of the

POCSO Act and is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 5 (five)

years and pay a fine of Rs. 1,000/- (Rupees One Thousand) only and in
14

default of payment of fine, to undergo rigorous imprisonment for 2 (two)
months. The period of detention already undergone by the accused during
investigation, and trial is set off with his custodial sentence.

45)I believe that the victim deserves compensation. So this case is
recommended for compensation. Send a copy of this judgment and order to
the Secretary, DLSA, Dibrugarh for assessment of compensation to the victim
under the Assam Victims Compensation Scheme, 2012.

46) Destroy the seized articles as per law.

47) Furnish free copies of judgment to the accused and to the District Magistrate.
Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 4°" day of
August, 2017.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
15

APPENDIX

List of witnesses:

1.

een au + Ww PN

PW-1 Sri Sankar Chandra Rabha;
PW-2 Smti. Susmita Kheruar;
PW-3 Smti. Reshma Ghatowar;
PW-4 Dr. Nibedita Shyam;

PW-5 Smti. Priya Rabidas;

PW-6 The alleged victim X;
PW-7 Smti. Sangita Rabidas;
PW-8 Sri Bhuban Ghatowar;
PW-9 Sri Soniram Rabidas;

10. PW-10 Smti. D Dutta; and
11. PW-11 SI Pratap Sena.
List of Exhibits:

1.
2.

9.

en oO oI Ss

Ext. 1 Medico-legal Report;

Ext. 2 Seizure-List;

Ext. 3 Statement of the witness PW-5 Smti. Priya Rabidas recorded under
Section 164 CrPC;

Ext. 4 Statement of the victim recorded under Section 164 CrPC;

Ext. 5 FSL Report;

Ext. 6 Ejahar;

Ext. 7 Sketch-Map;

Ext. 8 Seizure-List; and

Ext. 9 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
