1

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Special (POCSO) Case_ No. 19 of 2015.
GR Case No. 1533/15

(Section 6 of the Special POCSO Act, 2012)

State of Assam
- Versus -

Sri Jaydev Mandal

Present ; Mr. P.J. Saikia, AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Appearance :

For the State : Mr. H.P .Sedai,
Public Prosecutor.

For the accused : Sri P.Singh Sethi, Legal Aid
counsel.

Date of evidence : 13-11-2015,08-12-2015,
03-03-2016.

Date of argument : 28-04-2016.

Date of judgment : 28-04-2016.
2

JI UDGM ENT

1. This is a case under the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offices Act, 2012 (POCSO Act in short).
The Prosecution case.

2. It has been alleged by Mamoni Kurmi that on multiple
occasions her neighbor Jaydev Mandal (the accused) used to sexually
assault her 11 years old daughter. It is further alleged that on being
threatened of dangerous consequences, the young girl did not disclose
anything to her parents till 23-06-2015. On that day the victim girl

informed her mother about the aforesaid facts.

a During the period of investigation, the victim girl was
examined by a magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. (Ext.6). She has stated that
on the day of occurrence at about 3 p.m. her father was sleeping
inside the house. She has stated that the accused had summoned her
to his house and gave her some fried Bengal grams. At that time,
except the accused, there was nobody in his house. The victim has
stated that after closing the door of the house, the accused had
gagged her mouth with his hands and laid her on a bed. According to
the victim, her pant was removed and the accused forcefully raped
her. It may be mentioned that while giving the statement under
section 164 Cr.P.C, the Magistrate used the word “forcefully raped”.
The victim girl further stated that the accused asked her not to disclose
the matter to anyone and also threatened her that if she did so he will
beat her. The accused gave her Rs. 10/- in cash. The victim has also
disclosed that on that day her mother beat her as she wanted to know

as to why she had gone to the house of the accused on that day. At
3

that point of time the victim disclosed the aforesaid facts before her

mother.

4. The victim girl was also subjected to medical
examination. The Doctor has reported that there was sign of injury on
her private parts, nor there were any signs or symptoms of recent

sexual intercourse.

Point for determination.
5. The only point for determination in this trial was as to
whether the accused had committed penetrative sexual intercourse

upon the victim girl.

Decision and Reasons thereof
6. No doubt, in the instant case, the victim girl is the only
eye witness to the occurrence. Therefore, I shall take up her evidence
first, before taking up the evidence of remaining witnesses. In her
examination-in-chief she has supported her statement which was
recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. She has stated that on six occasions the
accused had committed rape upon her and on each occasion he used
to dish out the threat of dire consequence if she had disclosed the
matter to anyone. The victim has stated that on the last such occasion,
her younger sister had seen the occurrence as she had peeped through
the window of the house of the accused. The victim girl has stated that
it was her younger sister who actually informed her mother about the

aforesaid facts.
4

7. During cross-examination, the victim girl was confronted
with the fact that she did not state before police that the accused
actually called her to his house, closed the door and after removing her
pant, inserted his penis into her vagina. She denied the aforesaid fact.
The victim has admitted before the defence counsel that she did not
state before the police that her younger sister had seen the incident by

peeping through the window of the house of the accused.

8. Now, I shall take up the evidence of the younger sister of
the victim girl. Her name is withheld and is referred to as X. At the

time of giving evidence she was about 8 years old.

9. She has stated before the prosecution counsel that she had
seen the accused closing the door after her elder sister had entered
into his house. The young witness also stated that she had peeped
through a gap in the door of the house of the accused and saw that
the accused had removed the pant of her elder sister. She had also
seen that the accused gagging the mouth of her elder sister. The
witness stated that she was also advised by the accused not to disclose
the matter to her mother. The younger witness has divulged that the
person called Aman Dey had informed her mother about the aforesaid

incident.

10. X has stated before the defence counsel that the
aforementioned Amon Dey resides in their house. The young witness
was also confronted with the fact that she did not state before the

police that she had seen the aforementioned incident through a hole in
5

the door of the house of the accused and she denied the
aforementioned suggestion. She was also confronted with the fact that
she did not state before police that after seeing the incident through
the hole the door of the house of the accused, she had informed her
mother and she denied the aforesaid fact also. She denied this

suggestion.

11. Now, I shall take up the evidence of the
informant/mother. She has stated in her evidence that on 23-06-15
she came to know about the incident from her victim daughter. She
has quoted her daughter as saying to her that on the day the accused
took her to his house and after closing the door he had removed her
clothes and inserted his penis into her vagina. The mother has further
quoted her daughter as telling to her that the accused had done that
act on previous occasions also. The informant/mother has further
stated before the prosecution counsel that her younger daughter had
also witnessed the incident through a hole in the door of the house of

the accused and informed to her about the said fact.

12. During cross-examination, the informant/mother has
stated that on 23-06-2015 itself, albeit, on being questioned by her,
the accused had admitted the aforesaid fact. But she did not state the
said fact before police and when this fact was confronted to her she
denied the said suggestion. The informant/mother also did not state
before police that her younger daughter X did not see the incident
through a hole in the door of the house of the accused. When this fact

was confronted to her she again denied the suggestion.
6

13. Now, I shall take up the evidence of witness called
Monomati Kurmi. She is a hearsay witness. She came to know about
the fact of this case after she was informed by the mother of the
victim. She has also stated that the victim girl also told her that the
accused had sexually assaulted her.

During cross-examination, this witness has disclosed that
the victim girl did not inform her about the date and time when she
was sexually assaulted for 4/5 days. She has stated that she had

written the ejahar of this case as per instruction of the victim girl.

14. The prosecution side has examined two other witnesses
namely, Kashiram Kurmi and Premdhan Biswas. This Kashiram Kurmi is
the father of the victim girl. He has stated that his wife had informed
her that on the pretext of giving fried Bengal grams and chocolate the
accused had called his daughter to his house and thereafter sexually
assaulted her. He has also quoted her daughter as saying to him that

the accused had sexual intercourse with her.

15. During cross-examination, the defence counsel had
confronted him with the fact that he did not state before police that his
wife had informed him about the occurrence stating that on the pretext
of giving Bengal gram and chocolate the accused had sexually
assaulted his daughter. The witness denied the aforesaid fact. The
witness was also confronted with the fact that he did not state before
police that his daughter had also informed him that the accused had

sexually assaulted her. The witness denied the aforesaid facts also.
7

16. Premdhan Biswas is a hearsay witness and there is

nothing in his evidence to warrant any discussion.

17. The Doctor who performed the medical examination upon
the victim was also examined and the doctor spoke about the medical
report. Similarly, the Investigating Officer was also examined who

spoke about the investigation.

18. After careful examination of the prosecution evidence, I
have found that the entire case depends on the evidence of the victim
girl. She did not state before police that the accused called her to his
house, closed the door and after removing her pant inserted his penis
into her vagina. She also did not state before police that the accused
had dish out his threats of danger if she had disclosed the matter to
her mother. She also did not state before police that her younger sister
had seen the incident through the hole of the window of the house of

the accused.

19. Similarly, the informant/mother also did not state before
police that on the day of the aforesaid occurrence the accused had
admitted his guilt before her. The informant/mother also did not state
before police that her younger daughter X had seen the incident

through a hole in the door of the house of the accused.

20. The younger sister of the victim girl also did not state
before police that she had peeped through the hole in the door of the

house of the accused and saw the incident. She also did not state
8

before police that she had informed her mother after she had
witnessed the incident of sexual assault upon her elder sister in the

house of the accused.

21. The father of the victim girl also did not state before
police that his wife and his daughter had informed him about the said

occurrence. All these omissions have been confirmed by the I.0.

22. There is no doubt that the aforesaid witnesses have tried
to improve the case of the prosecution by stating new things in this
Court. By failing to state material facts before the I.O. and narrating
those facts in the court for the first time amounts to serious
contradictions. These witnesses stated different things before different
forums. By failing to state before police that on the day of occurrence,
the accused called her to his house, closed the door and after
removing her pant inserted his penis into her vagina, the prosecutrix
has made her evidence unreliable, because, the aforesaid fact is the
basis of the entire prosecution case. She also did not state before
police that the accused threatened her if she disclosed the matter to

anyone else.

23. Similarly, her younger sister also did not state before
police that she had seen the incident through a hole in the door of the
house of the accused. She has stated this fact for the first time in this
court. She also did not state before police that she had informed her
mother about the said fact after witnessing it through the hole in the

door of the house of the accused.
24. It may be stated that the mother of the victim girl did not also
state before the police that the accused had admitted his guilt before

her.

25. The explanation to Section 162 of Code of Criminal Procedure,
says that 'An omission to state a fact or circumstance, in the statement
may amount to contradiction if the same appears to be significant and
otherwise relevant having regard to the context in, which such

omission occurs.’

26. Whether any omission amounts to contradiction in the
particular context shall be a question of fact. What is omitted to be
stated is omission. A statement cannot include that, which is not
stated. Omission amounting to contradiction can be used for the
purpose of confrontation under Section 145 of the Evidence Act. Every

omission is not contradiction.

27. Very often to make a statement sensible or self consistent it
becomes necessary to imply words which are not actually in the
statement. Though something is not expressly stated, it is necessarily
implied from what is directly or expressly stated. Sometimes a positive
statement made has a negative aspect & negative one a positive
aspect. If a witness states that a man is dark, it also means that he is
not fair. Further, there are occasions when we come across two
statements made by the same person at different times, and both of

them cannot stand or co-exist.
10

28. An omission amounting to contradiction can be proved either by
bringing on record the whole of the statement confining its use to the
actual absence of the statement in Court or the police officer may be
asked to refer to the statement of the witness in the diary for

refreshing his memory as asked whether such statement was made.

29. — Still today the only authority on this subject is Tahsildar Singh
Vs. State,( AIR 1959, Supreme Court-1012),In this case it has been
laid down that-------

‘relevant & material omissions amount to vital contradictions
which can be established by cross- examination and confronting the
witness with his previous statement. Take an example ' in a murder
case, the witness tells investigating officer that only one accused had
fired his gun while in Court he states that both the accused had fired
their guns. This kind of omission is very significant and relevant and
shall amount to contradiction because the ballistic report says that the
dead man received bullets fired from two different guns. Section 162 of
Code of Criminal Procedure, casts a restriction about the use of
statement made by any witness to a police officer in the course of an
investigation which mandates that, such statement cannot be used for
any purpose but any part of his statement, if duly proved may be used
to contradict such witness in the manner prescribed by Section 145 of

the Indian Evidence Act.

30. Reverting to the case in hand, the omissions as has been
highlighted by the defence counsel are serious contradictions and they

have made the evidence of these witnesses unreliable because they
11

have stated different stories before different forums. I find myself
foreclosed against all options to hold that that the evidence of the
prosecutrix, her younger sister and her mother, who are the most

material witnesses of this case, have failed to inspire confidence.

31. Now, I have no doubt that the prosecution has miserably failed
to prove the offence against the accused Jaydev Mandal beyond all

reasonable doubt.
OR DER

32. That being the position, the accused Jaydev Mandal is found not
guilty and he is acquitted from this case.

Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 28"
April, 2016.

(P.J.Saikia)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(P.J. Saikia)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Typed by me.

(R. Hazarika)
Steno.
Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 -
P.W.2 -
P.W. 3 -
P.W. 4 -
P.W.5 -
P.W. 6 -
P.W. 7 -
P.W. 8-

Defence witnesses -
NIL

Prosecution Exhibit

Ext.l -
Ext.2 -
Ext.3 -
Ext.4 -
Ext.5 -
Ext. 6 -
Ext. 7 -
Ext. 8 -

Defence Exhibits

NIL

12

APPENDIX

Dr. Jnarna Kakoti, M.O.

Smti Monomati Kurmi

Smti Mamoni Kurmi, informant
victim

Miss Karismita Kurmi

Sri Kashiram Kurmi

Sri Premdhan Biswas,

Sri Mahendra Deka, I.O.

Medical report.

advice slip

Vaginal smear report.
USG report.

FIR

Statement of the victim
sketch map of the P.O.
Chargesheet.

( P.J. Saikia )
Special Judge
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
