SplI.(POCSO) Case No.17/19

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE ©: =: 3: i::::: CACHAR,SILCHAR
Spl.(POCSO) Case No.17 of 2019
(U/S 354B IPC and under section 10 of POCSO Act)
Present:- Shri Darak Ullah, AJS,
Special Judge,

 

Cachar, Silchar.

State Of ASSAM .......cccccccsseecccecssssaessseeeessstseeees Complainant.
-Versus-

Dulal DaS............cccceceeeeeeeeeeeeneeeeeseeeeeeeeaeeeeesseneeeeeeas Accused.

Charge framed On tm.........ccececceeeeesstseeeeeeesseeeeeesseees 21.10.19

P.WS. EXAMINE ON i... eeeeeeeeeteeteeeeeeeeeeees 30.1.20,25.2.20

Argument heard On! oo... cceeeeesssteeeeeseesesetseeeeeeens 25.2.20.

Judgment pronounced and delivered on:-..........0068 25.2.20.

Counsel Appeared:

For the State : Smti. B.Acharjee, Id.Spl. PP
For the Accused : MrS.Sengupta, Id. Advocate.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case, in brief, is that the informant lodged an

FIR with the I/C of Malugram TOP stating the facts that the minor victim
daughter of the informant used to go to the house of accused for tuition to
his daughter and the accused on 24.4.18 sexually assaulted the victim.
While the victim returned from tuition the informant noticed mark of bite
on her cheek and the victim reported the incident to the informant.

2. On receipt of the FIR, I/C, Malugram TOP forwarded the same
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.17/19

to Silchar PS wherein a regular PS case vide Silchar P.S. Case No.1318/18
U/S 326 IPC R/W Section 8 POCSO Act was registered. Police started
investigation and during the course of investigation the statement of the
victim girl was recorded U/S 164 Cr.P.C. and she was medically examined.
The investigating officer visited the place of occurrence and prepared a
rough sketch map etc. and subsequently after completion of investigation
submitted charge sheet against accused U/S 326 IPC r/w section 8 of
POCSO Act.

3. The offence u/s 326 of IPC r/w Section 8 of POCSO Act being
exclusively triable by the Court of Special Judge, this case was taken up for
trial by this court. In due course, upon appearance of the accused and
after hearing both sides formal charge U/S 354B IPC and under section 10
of POCSO Act was framed by this court against the accused person. The
charges having been read over and explained the accused pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. Now, in the present case the points to be decided are :-

(i) Whether on 24.04.18 at about 8 p.m. the accused person
assaulted / used criminal force to the victim with intention to disrobe her or
compelling her to be naked, as alleged ?

( ii ) Whether the accused person committed aggravated
sexual assault with the victim, as alleged?

5. Prosecution side examined as many as 3 witnesses including
the victim and the informant. On the submission of the Id. Special P.P. the
evidence for the prosecution side is closed. As no incriminating materials
appears to be found against the accused during evidence the recording of
statement of the accused U/S 313 Cr.P.C. is dispensed with.

6. I have gone through the entire evidence on record and have

also heard the Id.counsel for both the parties.
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.17/19

DISCUSSIONS, DECISIONS AND REASONS THERE-OF
7. Now, let me discuss the evidence below to see whether the
prosecution has succeeded to bring home the charges against the accused
person as mentioned in points for determination.
8. PW.1 Rita Rani Das, the informant, deposed in her evidence that
about one and half years ago, in the month of April, the occurrence took
place and she used to send her victim daughter to the house of the accused
as his daughter Priyanka Das was her private tutor. On the date of
occurrence, the victim girl went to the house of the accused for tuition to
Priyanka Das.At that time, Priyanka Das due to her exam, was busy with her
studies and she requested her father i.e. accused to do tuition to the victim
girl. She further deposed that on the following day, she noticed a pinch mark
on the cheek of the victim girl and on query the victim girl told that as she
could not answer the accused regarding study questions, the accused
pinched her on her cheek and so she sustained injury on her cheek. Then at
the instruction of Childline, PW.1 lodged FIR with the Malugram TOP.

In her cross examination PW.1 stated that her victim daughter had
been going for tuition to the house of the accused since 3/4 months prior to
the alleged occurrence. During the aforesaid period, victim never complained
her against the accused. Victim used to go to the tuition at about 6 PM in
the evening everyday and she used to return at about 8 PM. She further
stated that she had not noticed any pinching mark upon the cheek of the
victim on the previous night after returning from tuition. She also stated that
the victim had also not reported her any pain or suffering. She further stated
in her cross examination that victim also told her that daughter of the
accused Priyanka Das was also studying on the same table with the victim.
She also stated that the FIR was got written by a member of Childline and

asked her to put her signature.Police never took any wearing apparel of her
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.17/19

victim daughter from her. She put her signature as Ext. 2(1) at Malugram
TOP as per instruction of police and at the time of putting her signature, the
Ext. 2 was blank paper. She also stated in her cross examination that she
stated to police that the victim girl told her that as she could not answer the
accused regarding study questions, the accused pinched her on her cheek

and so she sustained injury on her cheek.

9. PW.2, the victim, deposed in her evidence that the occurrence took
place about two years ago and at that time, she used to go to the house of
accused Dulal Das for tuition and on that particular day the Priyanka Das,
daughter of the accused Dulal Das pinched her on her cheek. She further
deposed that on the following day at the time of taking bath, her mother
noticed that pinch mark on her cheek, and that at the instance of childline,
her mother lodged the FIR. Police produced her before the Magistrate
where her statement U/S 164 Cr.P.C. was recorded she was also medically
examined and police as per order of the Court had given her in zimma of her
parents. She further deposed that at the time of occurrence she was a
student of class VII.

In her cross examination she stated that she has not stated to police
as to how she got pinched mark on her cheek and she has _ also not stated
to doctor, at the time of her medical examination at SMCH, as to how she
got pinched mark on her cheek. She also stated that she gave statement
before Magistrate u/S 164 Cr.P.C in Ext. 3 as tutored by the persons of

childline.

10. PW.3, Reba Das , mother of the informant and grandmother of victim
deposed in her evidence that the occurrence took place about two years

ago on the following day of the occurrence, she noticed pinched mark on the
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.17/19

cheek of the victim and on being asked she said that the daughter of the

accused caused the pinched mark as she could not answer the questions.

In her cross examination she admitted that she has _ not stated
anything to police.
11. So, from the statement of prime witness i.e. the victim PW.2 it
appears that at the relevant time in course of her tuition her teacher who is
daughter of the accused pinched her on her cheek and at the time of
bathing her mother noticed that pinch mark on her cheek. The victim in her
evidence as discussed above did not at all implicate the accused in the
alleged offence of crime as leveled against him in any way. PW.1, the
informant, who is a reported witness though stated that victim reported her
that accused pinched her on her cheek as she could not answer the study
question and she sustained injury, but in view of the evidence of victim
herself as discussed above such piece of evidence of PW.1 could not
entangle the accused in any way in any offence. PW.3 also did not implicate
the accused in the alleged offence of crime. In view of the evidence as
discussed above, particularly in view of the evidence of prime witness the

victim, the accused deserves to be acquitted.

12. Upon consideration of all above the aspects, I hold that the
prosecution has miserably failed to prove its case U/S 354B IPC and section

10 of POCSO Act against the accused person.

13. In the result, accused person is not held guilty and stand

acquitted of the charge leveled against him and he is set at liberty forthwith.
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.17/19

Bail bond stands discharged.

Judgment is pronounced and delivered in the open court on
this the 25th day of February, 2020.
Dictated and corrected by

( Darak Ullah )
Special Judge, Special Judge,
Cachar, Silchar. Cachar, Silchar.

Transcribed by K. Bhattacharjee, Stenographer Gr. I
SplI.(POCSO) Case No.17/19

 

Spl.(POCSO) Case No. 17 of 2019.
APPENDIX

(A) PROSECUTION WITNESSES: -

PW. 1 — Rita Rani Das
PW, 2 — victim
PW. 3 — Reba Das

(B) DEFENCE WITNESSES: - NIL

(C) PROSECUTION EXHIBITS: -

Ext.1- FIR

Ext.2-Seizure list

Ext.3- Statement of victim.

(E) DEFENCE EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(F) COURT EXHIBITS: - NIL.

(G) EXHIBITS PRODUCED BY WITNESSES: -_ NIL.

Special Judge,

Cachar, Silchar.
