SESS 53 (DH) OF 2016

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, DHEMAJI,

Present: Shri A. Hazarika,

 

Sessions Judge,

Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SESSIONS CASE NO. 53 (DH) of 2016.
~~ eS STONS CASE NO. 53 (DH) of 2016,

(G.R. Case No.166/2016 (SLP) , Silapathar P.s,
the Indian Penal Code R/W Sec. 4 of the POCSO

The State of Assam
- Versus —

Shri Monuj Das
Committing Magistrate:-
Shri P.C. Kalita,
Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Dhemaji.
Appearance:
Shri P.C. Boruah,
Public Prosecutor
Shri G. Phukan,
Defence Counsel
Date of committal
Date of Charge
Date of prosecution evidence
Date of recording Statement of Accused
Date of defence evidence
Date of arguments

Date of Judgment

Case No.54/2016 Under Section 366(A) of
Act, 2012.

SSE Ao ose Accused Person

ee ees For the State

sieraaes For the Accused person
: 02-05-2016

: 19-05-2016.

: 03-10-2016,05-01-2017,

: 02-02-2017.

: Nil.

: 28-02-2017.

: 15-03-2017.

be

beache be

Dnemed
SESS 53 (DH) OF 2016

JUDGMENT
Case of the Prosecution:

L The prosecution case in brief is that on 29-02-2016 complainant- Shri Suraj Nayak,
S/O Lt. Hiteswar Nayak, R/O No.2 Khanamukh Gaon , P.S. Silapathar, District- Dhemaji
lodged an FIR to the effect that on 15-02-2016 his sister- Smti Rita Nayak, a minor girl aged
about 14 years, went to her school and thereafter she was missing. It is also mentioned in
the FIR that he (complainant) knew that his neighbor-Smt. Anita Das’s brother-Shri Monuj
Das kidnapped/abducted her sister-Rita Nayak. On the basis of the said FIR a case being
Silapathar P.S Case NO 54 of 2916 was registered.

2. Thereafter, the case was investigated and on the basis of the materials available,
charge- sheet was submitted under Section 366 (A) of the Indian Penal Code read with sec.
4 of the POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused Monuj Das.

3. The case being exclusively triable by the Sessions Court the same was committed to
the Court of Sessions, Dhemaji by the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Dhemaji on 02-05-
2016.

Charge:

4. Charges Under Section 366 of the Indian Penal Code read with sec. 4 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 were framed against the accused
person-Monuj Das by the court on 19-05-2016 to which the accused person pleaded not
guilty and claimed to be tried.

Evidence:
5. To prove the guilt of the accused, Prosecution examined three witnesses.

5.(a) PW-1 Shri Suraj Nayak has evidenced that he knew the accused present in the dock.
He has filed the case. The incident took place about 5 years ago. He was not present at his
home on that day. His sister-Rita Nayak was at home in the study room. She eloped with
Monuj Das. He came home after 3 days of the incident and got to know about it and then
he filed the FIR. Rita was recovered from Nepal. She is now with them. At that time Rita
was reading in Class-IX and aged about 15 years.

This witness has exhibited Exhibit-1 as the FIR and Exhibit-1(1) as his signature.

During the cross examination of the witness, he has admitted that Rita and the
accused were in love.

5 (b). PW-2 Smti Rita Nayak has evidenced that she knew the accused present in the dock.
Complainant-Suraj Nayak is her elder brother. The incident was on the 15" February/2016.
She had eloped with the accused and stayed with him in Nepal. They got married. Then she
was brought back as she was under age and now she is staying with her brother. At that
time she was in Class-IX and aged 15 years. Police took her statement and did her Medical.

This witness exhibited Exhibit-2 as her statement recorded u/s 164 of Cr.P.C. and
Exhibit-2(1 & 2)) as her signatures.

ee “. ges eae
peasions ww
SESS 53 (DH) OF 2016

Y

In cross-examination, this witness has stated that they had been in love for the last
9 years. She eloped of her own. Her family had also filed a case against the accused.

S.C)  PW3 is Dr. Chandrajit Doley who has evidenced that on 16-03-2016 he was serving
as Medical & Health Officer at Model Hospital, Silapathar. On that day, he examined Smt.
Rita Nayak at about 10.30 A.M. on police requisition on being escorted and identified by
Rina Kuli. On examination, he found no any physical injury over the body of the victim. He
found the hymen not present. He opined that there was no evidence of recent forceful
intercourse or any violence marks on her body or private parts and her age according to the
birth certificate was 14 years.

This witness exhibited Ext-3 as the Medical Examination Report and Ext-3(1) as his
signature.

Defence declined to cross-examine this witness.

Statement of Accused under Section 313 Cr.PC & Defence Evidence:
statement of Accused under section 313 Cr.PC & Defence Evidence:

6. The statement of the accused person- Shri Monuj Das is recorded under Section 313
of the Code of Criminal Procedure on 02-02-2017 where the accused person denied the
charge and stated that he is innocent and that she had gone with him on her own.

Point For Determination

 

7: The moot point for determination is as to whether the accused person Monuj Das
kidnapped/abducted the victim Smti Rita Nayak forcibly taking her away with intent to
compel her to marry against her will and to force or seduce illicit intercourse and whether
the accused committed penetrative sexual assault on Smt. Rita Nayak, a minor girl aged
about 14 years and thus committing the offences punishable under Section 366 of the
Indian Penal Code read with sec. 4 of the POCSO Act,, 2012. ?

Discussion and Conclusions

 

8. I have heard Shri G. Phukan , the learned counsel for the defence as well as the
Shri P.C. Boruah, the learned Public Prosecutor. I have also perused the evidence and other
materials on record.

9; The basic crux of the entire prosecution case is that the victim Smti Rita Nayak had
had been kidnapped by the accused Monuj Das. However, on going through the evidence of
the victim girl (PW2) , it is crystal clear that she and the accused were having an affair for
about 5 years and thereafter, she had gone with him on her own volition to Nepal. The
victim further evidenced that there they had got married. Even PW-1 has evidenced that the
accused and the victim were in love. The fact that the victim had gone with the accused on
her own accord is proved beyond doubt and there is no iota of evidence about the accused
having induced her or forced her. However, the victim has evidenced that there the accused
and the victim got married. But there is evidence of such a marriage having taken place
between the victim and the accused except for the statement of the victim herself. Even
that is an omnibus statement and does not in any way reflect as to how the marriage was
solemnized. That being so it cannot be said that any marriage between her and the accused
had taken place. There is also no evidence on record that would suggest that the was any
physical relationship between the two. The victim has not tendered any evidence in that
regard. This fact is further fortified by the fact that the doctor in his report did not find any
signs of recent sexual intercourse on her body and private parts. The evidence of PW 1 does

3

suasiped vuage

Creme
SESS 53 (DH) OF 2016

“ot any way help the prosecution case as he came to know about the incident only 4 days
after the incident and then filed the FIR.

The only thing that remains to be seen is as to whether the victim was a minor at
the time of the incident. PW-1 and PW-2 have both stated that at that time PW-2 was about
15 years. But they have not given any date of birth of the victim. Even the victim herself
who is educated does not disclose her date of birth, That leaves this Court to rely upon the
evidence tendered by the doctor. However, upon perusal of the evidence it is seen that he
has relied upon the birth certificate of the victim to determine the age of the victim to be 14
years. But sadly the Prosecution has failed to Exhibit the said certificate as evidence and
therefore it becomes a fatality for the Prosecution case. Be that as it may the benefit of this
Court not being able to fix as to whether the victim was a major or a minor has to be
tendered to the accused.

The sina-qua non for a person to be guilty u/s 366 IPC is an intention to marry or
for fulfillment of sexual intercourse. In the instant case, even though prima-facie elopement
may even made out, above two ingredients cannot be said to have been fulfilled. As such,
the accused cannot be held to be liable u/s 366 of IPC. There being no sexual act the
charges under Section 4 of the POCSO Act also does not stand proved.

However, since the victim may have been a minor, this Court is inclined to look into
as to whether the accused may be guilty on the charges of kidnapping. Sec. 361 being a
cognate minor offence of sec. 366 of IPC, this court is of the considered view that no
separate charge being be framed -However, sec. 361 of IPC envisages that in order that a
girl is deem to have been kidnapped, the age of the minor should be under 18 years.
However, sec. 361 also mandates the word ‘take’ which should imply intention on the part of
the accused and absence of desire of the person taken. In the instant case, it is seen that
the victim had accompanied the accused on her own and there was no active part played by
the accused immediately preceding the incident itself which would show that he had tried
to solicit to persuade the minor to go with him. Therefore, the victim having gone with the
accused willingly, without any part being played by the accused would not qualify the word
“take ” as envisaged by Section 361 of the IPC and the accused cannot be said to have
taken the victim out of custody of her legal guardian. Situated thus, the accused cannot be
held to be guilty u/s 361 of IPC also.

10. Therefore, upon consideration of evidence on record, it comes out that the victim
had gone with the accused on her own volition. The evidence also indicates that there are
no any ingredients whatsoever about the accused taking away the victim by force or deceit
and about there being any marriage or sexual act between them Furthermore this Court is
further handicapped by the fact that the Prosecution has failed to prove the actual fact as to
whether the victim was a minor or not and as such the benefit of the same has to be
tendered to the accused. Therefore, this Court is of the considered opinion that the accused-
Monuj Das cannot held liable for commission of the offence under Section 366 the Indian
Penal Code and Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

Decision

ii; Accordingly, the accused person Shri Monuj Das is not found guilty of the charge
under Section 366 the Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

4
SESS 53 (DH) OF 2016

Order

12. The accused Shri Monuj Das is acquitted of the charges under Section 366 the
Indian Penal Code and Section 4 of the POCSO Act.

13: Bail bond executed by accused persons and surety are extended for next six months
as per the previous of section 437A of the Code of Criminal Procedure.

14. Considering the facts of the instant case, this matter is not referred to District Legal
Services Authority for granting compensation u/s 357A Code of Criminal Procedure.

15. Judgment is pronounced in open court. Case is disposed on contest.

Given under my hand seal of this Court on this 15" day of March, 2017.

Dictated & corrected by me:-

(A. Hazarika)
Ses bs Ss Judge as ,

Dhenhiajion 2%

    

 

Typed by me :-

( B.K. Buragohain )
Steno. Grade-I.
SESS 53 (DH) OF 2016

Appendix:

Prosecution Witnesses

 

P.W. 1 - Shri Suraj Nayak, (complainant),
P.W. 2 - Smt. Rita Nayak,

P.W.3 - Dr. Chandrajiut Doley.
Defence Witnesses:-

None,

Prosecution Exhibits:

Exhibit-1 = FIR
Exhibit-1(1) - Signature of complainant-Shri Suraj Nayak,
Exhibit-2 - Statement of Smt. Rita NAyak u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-2(1 and 2) - Signatures of Smt. Rita Nayak,
Exhibit-3 - Medical Report,
Exhibit-3(1) - Signature of Dr. Chandrajit Doley.
Defence Exhibits :
None
( Shri A! Hazarika )
Sessions Judge,

Dhemajji.
