IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017
(G.R. Case No. 404 of 2017)
Mariani P.S. Case No. 168 of 2017

Transmitting Magistrate:-

Sri C. Barua,

The then In-charge Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate,
Titabar Sub-Division,

Jorhat District

State of Assam

-Versus-

Sri Suresh Karmakar,

Son of Sri Biren Karmakar,

Resident of Mashkhuwa Misti Gaon,

P.S. Mariani,

District-Jorhat. .... Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P., Jorhat
For the Accused: Sri Siddhartha Bora, Learned Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTIONS 354-A/341 OF INDIAN PENAL
CODE READ WITH SECTION 8 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN
FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 22-11-2017
Date of prosecution evidence : 03-01-2018; 17-01-2018; 07-02-2018;

22-02-2018; 08-03-2018; 11-06-2018

& 21-07-2018
Statement of Accused
Recorded on : 13-08-2018
Date of Argument : 03-10-2018
Date of Judgment : 12-10-2018

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Mariani P.S. Case No.
168/2017 under Sections 341/354/427 of IPC was registered on the basis
of a F.I.R. lodged by Sri Saru Ghatowar, father of the victim girls [hereinafter
referred to as ‘X’ and ‘Y’].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 31/07/2017 [Exhibit-3], the
informant Sri Saru Ghatowar [PW-4] who is the father of the victim girls namely
[X] and [Y] alleged, /nter-alia, that on 30/07/2017 at about 6.00 P.M. his two
minor victim daughters went to the shop located in their village named
Machkhuwa Misti Gaon under Mariani P.S. It is further stated by the informant
that when his two daughters were returning back home from the shop, on the
way, the accused Suresh Karmakar met his two daughters, intercepted them on
the road and thereafter put his hands over their respective bodies. It is further
alleged by the informant that the accused also tried to outrage the modesty of
his two minor daughters, for which, they cried for help, and in that event, the
accused fled away from the said place.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the then In-charge,
Deberapar O.P. under Mariani P.S., the same was entered in General Diary
Register vide No. 672 dated 31/07/2017. The ejahar was sent to Mariani P.S. for
registration of a case under proper section of law. The Officer-in-charge, Mariani
P.S., upon receipt of the ejahar, registered the same vide Mariani P.S. Case
No. 168/2017 under Sections 341/354/427 of IPC. S.I. of police Sri Deba
Jyoti Phukan was entrusted with the charge of investigation by the Officer-in-
charge, Mariani P.S.

During the course of investigation, the victim girls were medically
examined by the doctor, their respective statements under Section 164 of Cr.P.C.
was recorded by the learned Magistrate. Police, on completion of investigation,
filed charge-sheet in the case against the above named accused Suresh
Karmakar u/Ss. 341/354/427 of IPC as well as under Section 8 of The Protection
of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 vide Charge-sheet No. 132/2017
dated 30/09/2017.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017
2). The then learned In-charge Sub-Divisional Judicial Magistrate, Titabar
Sub-Division, District-Jorhat, transmitted the case to this court for trial as it was
covered under POCSO Act. Accordingly, on production of accused, copy was

furnished to him.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the learned counsel for
the accused and the prosecution in this behalf, charges were framed against the
accused under Sections 354-A/341 of IPC read with Section 8 of The Protection
of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, which were read over and explained

to the accused, to which, the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 10 [ten] numbers of witnesses including
the victims, her father-cum-informant of the case, the Medical Officer and the
I.0. were examined on behalf of the prosecution to prove the charge u/S. 354-
A/341 of IPC read with Section 8 of The Protection of Children from Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. The accused stated that somebody has
tutored the victims to lodge false case against him with the help of their father.
The accused has further stated that he has been falsely implicated in the case.
The accused pleaded innocence. The accused did not adduce defence evidence

on his behalf.

5). I have heard Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public Prosecutor
for the State as well as Sri Siddhartha Bora, learned Defence Counsel for the
accused who is facing trial for commission of offence u/Ss. 341/354-A of IPC
read with Section 8 of The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-
1) Whether on 30/07/2017 at about 6.00 P.M. when the minor
daughters of the informant were proceeding towards a shop

located in their village, the accused wrongfuly restrained them

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017
2)

3)

on the road located at Machkowa Misti Gaon under Mariani P.S.
and thereby committed an offence punishable under Section 341
of IPC?

Whether the accused persons on the same day, time and place
after wrongfully restraining the minor daughters of the
informant, grabbed both the victims on the road and thereafter
tore their cloths or used criminal force intending to outrage her
modesty and thereby committed an offence punishable under
Section 354-A of IPC?

Whether on the date of occurrence the accused named above
committed sexual assault upon the victim girl and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Section 8 of The

Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012?

DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

7).

First of all, let me see what are the relevant provisions of law with

reference to the charged sections against accused.

Section-354 [A] — Sexual harassment and punishment for sexual

harassment —

[1] A man committing any of the following acts —

Physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and explicit
sexual overtures; or

A demand or request for sexual favours; or

Showing pornography against the will of a woman; or

Making sexual coloured remarks, shall be guilty of the offence of

sexual harassment.

[2]. Any man who commits the offence specified in clause (i) or clause

(ii) or clause (iii) of sub-section (1) shall be punished with rigorous

imprisonment for a term which may extend to three years, or with fine,
or with both.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017
[3]. Any man who commits the offence specified in clause (iv) of sub-
section (1) shall be punished with imprisonment of either description

for a term which may extend to one year, or with fine, or with both.

Section 341 — Punishment for wrongful restraint — Whoever wrongfully
restrains any person shall be punished with simple imprisonment for a
term which may extend to one month, or with fine which may extend

to five hundred rupees, or with both.

THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

Section-8 — Whoever commits sexual assault shall be punished with
imprisonment of either description for a term which shall not be less
than three years but which may extend to five years, and shall also be

liable to fine.

8). To decide the above points and sections of law, let us examine,
analyze and appreciate the evidence of the witnesses along with the relevant
documents.

PW-1 [X] is one of the victim girl, who during her deposition in
Court stated that on the date of incident she went to the shop located in their
village alongwith her elder sister [Y] at around 5.00 P.M. She noticed the accused
standing in the shop. When they returned from the shop the accused was hiding
behind a tree. She called the accused but, the later, did not reply to her and
instead caught her from backside. Further version of the victim is to the effect
that the accused also touched her breast. It is further version of the victim that
she resisted the accused and in the process the accused tore her frock.
Thereafter, the accused caught her elder sister [Y]. However, the accused fled
away from the scene after hearing sound of two women who were coming from
back side. Both of them returned back home and narrated the incident before the
two women who told the same before her father. Further version of the victim is
that she also narrated the incident before her father who, in turn, told the VDP
Secretary and also before police. Police sent her before a doctor for medico legal

check-up and thereafter she was produced before the Magistrate who recorded

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017
her statement vide Exhibit-1 wherein Exhibit-1 [1] and Exhibit-1 [2] are her
signatures.

During cross-examination, she denied defence suggestion that she did
not state before police as well as learned Magistrate that at the time of incident
two women were coming from back side and that she raised hue and cry at the
time of incident. She confirmed that she narrated the incident before the VDP

Secretary also.

9). [PW-2] is the another victim girl [Y] who is elder sister of victim
[X]. This witness during her testimony divulged alike as that of her younger sister
[PW-1]. This witness further stated that she raised hue and cry. Thereafter,
accused also touched her breast and tore her cloths from back side. She gave
statement before the learned Magistrate vide Exhibit-2 wherein Exhibit-2 [1] is
her signature.

During cross-examination, she denied defence suggestion that she did
not state before police that she noticed the accused in the shop before the
incident; that accused went ahead of them and was hiding behind a tree and
caught both of them and that two women were coming from back side. The
victim further stated that initially she could not recognize the accused but when

the later came in front of them then only she could recognize the accused.

10). The evidence of Smt. Malati Ghatowar [PW-3] who is the mother
of the victims [X & Y] divulged during her testimony that on the date of incident
she was present inside the house. Both her daughters including the victim [PW-
1] went to the shop located in their village. On their return back home from the
shop they arrived at the house in weeping condition alongwith two other women.
On being asked, her two daughters divulged before her that the accused caught
both of them and touched their breasts. Both her two minor daughters also
informed her that the accused also tore off their cloth. She then informed the
matter before her husband who, in turn, stated the facts before the VDP
Secretary. It is her further version that police seized the wearing apparels of her
daughters together with the school certificates of the victims where she put her

signature.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017
During cross-examination, this witness stated that she did not
witness the incident but came to know about the same through the mouth of her
daughters as well as two women who were coming back side at the time of
incident. She denied defence suggestion that she did not state before police that

accused touched the breast of her minor daughters [X and Y].

11). Sri Saru Ghatowar [PW-4] who is the father of victim-cum-
informant of the case deposed in the same tune as that of his wife [PW-3]. It is
further stated by him that both his two minor daughters divulged that the
accused was waiting on the road by which they were returning back home.
Thereafter, the accused caught the younger daughter of the informant and tore
her cloths. In that event, the accused also caught his elder daughter. Further
version of this witness is that at that time two women were coming behind his
daughters and hearing their sound the accused fled away from the spot. After
receipt of information he reported the matter before the VDP Secretary and
thereafter lodged ejahar before police regarding the incident against the accused
vide Exhibit-3 wherein Exhibit-3 [1] is his signature. This witness further stated
that police seized the wearing apparels of Matu Ghatowar and victim vide
seizure-list [Exhibit-4 & 5] wherein he put his signatures vide Exhibit-4 [1] and
Exhibit-5 [1].

This witness during cross-examination stated that he did not read
over the contents of the ejahar. He admitted that police did not interrogate him
in connection with the case but police seized the articles on the next day of
incident. It is categorically stated by this witness that he has mentioned in the

ejahar about the two women who were present at the time of incident.

12). Smt. Bhadori Nayak [PW-5] during her evidence stated that on
the date of incident she met the accused and asked him why there was hue and
cry. She also witnessed both the victims alongwith the accused who were
weeping at that time. Thereafter, she asked both the victims why they were
weeping.

This witness was declared hostile by prosecution and during

 

cross-examination by prosecution side she denied to have stated before police

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017
that “at the time of incident it was dark; that she found people
assembled near a tree and she found that both the victims were crying
and when she asked them as to what had happened they told her that
accused caught both of them from the back side and torn their cloth
and that after sometime the parent of victim came and she left the
place”.

This witness during cross-examination by defence side stated that
she did not witness the incident but denied that she did not state before police

that on the date of incident she was coming from her mother’s house.

13). PW-6 is Smt. Pushpa Tanti who during her evidence stated that
on the date of incident she went with her elder sister to see her mother. She was
coming with Bhadori Nayak [PW-5]. On the way, she witnessed the accused and
cries of victims near the place of occurrence. She found both the victims in
weeping condition and asked them as to why they were crying. In turn, both the
victims divulged before her that the accused had touched their bodies in a bad
manner.

Defence side cross-examined this witness. During  cross-
examination, she stated that she did not witness the incident and cannot say

who caught the victims.

14). Smt. Niva Neog [PW-7] is hearsay witness. This witness divulged
during her testimony that on the next day she came to know that accused pulled
victim on the previous night.

During cross-examination, she denied defence suggestion that she

did not state before police that she heard the incident from the VDP personnel.

15). The evidence of Sri Suresh Murari [PW-8] is to the effect that
he was present when police seized the school certificates of victim on being
produced by their father which was seized by police vide seizure-list [Exhibit-6]

wherein Exhibit-6 [1] is his signature.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017
This witness during cross-examination by defence side denied to
have stated before police that at the time of incident he was present at Boisahabi
TE.

16). Dr. Amrita Nath [PW-9] stated that on 02/08/2017 she examined
the victim [PW-1 & PW-2] on police requisition. On examination on the bodies of
victims, she did not notice any injuries and recent sexual intercourse over their
person and both the victims were not pregnant at the time of their examination.
The doctor further stated that the age of victim [X] is above 14 years and below
16 years and the age of victim [Y] is above 20 years. She exhibited the medico
legal reports of victims vide Exhibit-7 & 8 wherein Exhibit-7 [1] to Exhibit-7 [3]
and Exhibit-8 [1] to Exhibit-8 [3] are her signatures.

This witness stated during cross-examination that no family

members accompanied the victims at the time of examination.

17). Sri Deba Jyoti Phukan [PW-10] is the investigating officer of the
case who deposed about the routine steps taken by him after entrustment of the
case to him by the then Officer-in-charge, Mariani P.S. He exhibited the ejahar
lodged by the informant as Exhibit-3 wherein Exhibit-3 [1] is his signature. He
also exhibited the signature of the then Officer-in-charge, Mariani P.S. vide
Exhibit-3 [2]. It is further version of the I.0. that he seized the wearing apparel
of the victims [X & Y] vide seizure-lists [Exhibit-4 and Exhibit-5] wherein Exhibit-
4 [2] and Exhibit-5 [2] are his signatures. He also visited the place of occurrence
and drew Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index vide Exhibit-9
wherein Exhibit-9 [1] is his signature. He also arrested the accused in connection
with the case. It is further version of the I.0. that he also seized the school
certificates of the victims from their father vide seizure-list [Exhibit-6] wherein
Exhibit-6 [2] is his signature. On completion of investigation he submitted
charge-sheet against the accused vide Exhibit-10 wherein Exhibit-10 [1] is his
signature.

The I.0. stated that witness Smt. Bhadori Nayak [PW-5] during
her statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. divulged before him that “at the time

of incident it was dark; that she found people assembled near a tree

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017
10

and she found that both the victims were crying and when she asked
them as to what had happened they told her that accused caught both
of them from the back side and torn their cloth and that after sometime
the parent of victim came and she left the place”.

During cross-examination by defence side the I.0. stated that
witness Smt. Bhadori Nayak [PW-5] stated before him that it was dark at the
time of incident. He confirmed that he seized the wearing apparels of the victims
on being produced by them but did not seize the torn cloth of the victims from
the place of incident.

The I.0. confirmed that witness ‘Y’ [PW-2] during her statement
under Section 161 Cr.P.C. did not state before him that she noticed the accused
in front of a shop; that two women were coming from back side and that
accused was hiding behind a tree but she stated that accused came out behind a
tree.

‘X’ [PW-1] during her statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. did not
state before him that at the time of incident two women were coming from the
back side.

The 1.0. further confirmed that witness Smt. Malati Ghatowar [PW-
3] who is mother of the victims did not state before him that accused touched
the breast of her daughters.

The 1.0. denied all the defence suggestions put to him during

cross-examination by defence side.

18). The accused during his examination under Section 313 Cr.P.C. stated
that somebody had tutored the victims to depose falsely against him and further

that informant of the case had lodged false case against him.

19). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen that the
victims [PW-1 & PW-2] are the star witnesses of the instant case.

PW-1 during her testimony stated that on the date of incident she
went to the shop located in their village alongwith her elder sister [Y] at around
5.00 P.M. She noticed the accused standing in the shop. When they returned

from the shop the accused was hiding behind a tree. She called the accused but

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017

10
11

the later did not reply to her and instead caught her from backside. Further
version of the victim is to the effect that the accused also touched her breast. It
is further version of the victim that she resisted the accused and in the process
the accused tore her frock. Thereafter, the accused caught her elder sister [Y].
However, the accused fled away from the scene after hearing sound of two
women who were coming from back side. Both of them returned back home and
narrated the incident before the two women who told the same before her
father. Further version of the victim is that she also narrated the incident before
her father who, in turn, told the VDP Secretary and also before police. Police sent
her before a doctor for medico legal check-up and thereafter she was produced
before the Magistrate who recorded her statement vide Exhibit-1 wherein Exhibit-
1 [1] and Exhibit-1 [2] are her signatures.

During cross-examination, she denied defence suggestion that she did
not state before police as well as learned Magistrate that at the time of incident
two women were coming from back side and that she raised hue and cry at the
time of incident. She confirmed that she narrated the incident before the VDP

Secretary also.

20). The evidence of another victim [PW-2] who is the elder sister of
victim [PW-1] divulged alike as that of her younger sister [PW-1]. This witness
further stated that she raised hue and cry. Thereafter, accused also touched her
breast and tore her cloths from back side. She gave statement before the learned
Magistrate vide Exhibit-2 wherein Exhibit-2 [1] is her signature.

During cross-examination, she denied defence suggestion that
she did not state before police that she noticed the accused in the shop before
the incident; that accused went ahead of them and was hiding behind a tree and
caught both of them and that two women were coming from back side. The
victim further stated that initially she could not recognize the accused but when

the later came in front of them then only she could recognize the accused.

21). During statement made before the learned Magistrate on 31/07/2017

the victim [X] divulged the same fact which gets full corroboration from her elder

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017

11
12

sister [Y] who gave also similar statement before the learned Magistrate under
Section 164 Cr.P.C. on the same day, i.e., on 31/07/2017.

22). Learned counsel for the accused has argued that the parent of the
victim had enmity with the accused and hence they lodged false case against
him. It is further contended that the victims had been tutored by her parents to
depose against the accused. It is also submitted that the parent of the victim
were reported witnesses and the evidence of mother of the victim [PW-3] varies
with the evidence recorded by the I.O. during 161 Cr.P.C. statement. However, I
am unable to find any materials on record which goes to say that false case has

been lodged against the accused by the father of victims.

23). It was argued on behalf of the accused that he has been falsely
implicated in the instant case by the parent of the victim due to previous enmity
and the victims had been tutored by someone else to depose falsely against him.
But, as said earlier, defence side could not show any incident to establish the

previous enmity.

24). The accused during his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. remained
silent as to the version of the victims [PW-1 & PW-2]. He further disclosed that
he had been falsely implicated in the instant case by the informant. Further, the
victims were tutored by someone else to depose against him. All the mitigating
circumstances were put to him [accused] but he could not explain the
circumstances but remained mum. False explanation or no explanation by the
accused, provides the missing link, if any, in the prosecution case. [Relied on
State of Maharashtra-versus-Suresh, reported in (2000) 1 SCC 471
(Para No-27)]

25). In view of the above discussion, I am of the considered view that
prosecution has considerably been able to prove the case against accused Sri
Suresh Karmakar under Sections 341/354-A of IPC. Hence the accused is

convicted there under.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017

12
13

However, on scrutinizing the evidence on record it is seen that no
case has been made out against accused Sri Suresh Karmakar to warrant his
conviction under Section 8 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences
Act, 2012, as one of the victim [PW-2] was aged more than 18 years at the time
of incident. Prosecution has not been able to make out a case against the
accused Sri Suresh Karmakar under the aforesaid section of law beyond
reasonable doubt, for which, I am of the opinion that the accused is entitled to
acquittal under benefit of doubt which I accordingly do. Moreover, prosecution
side could not establish the fact that younger victim [X] was below 18 years of

age at the time of incident.

26). Accused Sri Suresh Karmakar is heard on the point of sentence.
The accused has submitted that he resides with his parent and there is none to
look after them in his absence. He further submitted that if he is sent to jail
hajot, then his family will be destroyed. Hence, the accused prayed for leniency.
Further, the accused stated that there is no other criminal case pending against

him.

27). I have heard Sri Siddhartha Bora, learned Defence Counsel for the
accused as well as Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned Special Public Prosecutor, Jorhat.

Considering all aspects, accused Sri Suresh Karmakar is
sentenced to pay fine of Rs. 500/- [Rupees Five Hundred], in-default of
payment of fine, to suffer SIMPLE IMPRISONMENT for 10 [ten] days under
Section 341 of IPC.

Further, the accused is sentenced to pay fine of Rs. 2,000/-
[Rupees Two Thousand], in-default of payment of fine, to suffer SIMPLE
IMPRISONMENT for 1 [one] month under Section 354-A of IPC.

The period of detention already undergone by the accused
during investigation and trial shall be set off from the period of imprisonment
imposed on him under Section 428 Cr.P.C.

The accused is acquitted from the charge under Section 8 of
The Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012, as said, hereinbefore,

under benefit of doubt.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017

13
14

Out of the fine amount, if paid by the accused Suresh Karmakar,
Rs. 1,000/- [Rupees One Thousand] each will be paid to the victim girls as
compensation and rest of the amount, i.e., Rs. 500/- [Rupees Five Hundred]
shall be deposited with the Secretary, District Legal Services Authority, Jorhat.

28). Free copy of the judgment be furnished to the accused immediately.
Another copy of this judgment be sent to the learned District

Magistrate, Jorhat under Section 365 Cr.P.C.

33). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 12th day of
October 2018.

Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:-15

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017

14
15

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

 

ANNEXURES:-

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

PW-1 Victim girl.

PW-2 Victim girl.

PW-3 Smt. Malati Ghatowar, mother of victims [PW-1 &
PW-2].

PW-4 Sri Saru Ghatowar, father of victims-cum-informant
of the case.

PW-5 Smt. Bhadori Nayak, housewife.

PW-6 Smt. Pushpa Tanti, tea garden worker.

PW-7 Smt. Niva Neog, Anganwadi worker.

PW-8 Sri Suresh Murari, businessman.

PW-9 Dr. Amrita Nath, who examined the victims.

PW-10 Sri Deba Jyoti Phukan, I.O. of the case.

COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

 

  
 

 

  

 

  

 

  

 

   

  

 

     

Exhibit-1 Statement of the victim [PW-1] recorded by the
Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-1 Statement of the victim [PW-2] recorded by the
Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-3 Ejahar

Exhibit-4, 5 & 6 Seizure-lists

Exhibit-7 & 8 Medico-legal reports of victims

Exhibit-9 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index.

Exhibit-10 Charge-sheet

 

  
 
 

 

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NIL

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017

15
SPECIAL CASE NO. 72 OF 2017

16

16
