Page 1 of 26

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

 

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of,accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C

Date of Argument

Date.of Judgment

Date of Sentence Hearing

Date of Final Judgment

Counsel for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

31 OF 2016
(Under Section 6 of the POCSO
Act, arising out of G.R. Case No.
2613 of 2016)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-vs-
Sri Ganga Das

Son of Late Babulal Das,
Resident of Chengalimara,
Police Station — Jamuguri,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam

23/11/2017

13/02/2018, 05/05/2018, 14/05/2018,
21/05/2018 & 18/06/2018

12/07/2018

24/07/2018
07/08/2018.
08/08/2018
08/08/2018

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Special Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. A. K. Saikia, Ld. Advocate.

 
Page 2 of 26

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Ganga Das is put for trial for allegation of
charge under Section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on 14.08.2016
at about 5:30 PM, the accused who is the father of 10 years old granddaughter of
the informant enticed her and took her to his house. On the same night, at about
9 PM when the victim was sleeping with the accused, accused attempted to rape
the victim by opening her panty and asked her do not disclose about,the same to
anybody. When the victim wanted to attend nature’s call, her parents»opened the
door and then she fled away from their house and informed the matter to
Srimanta Das, Junti Das and the village headman Prabhat.Das‘on the said night
about the incident. Hence, the prosecution case. The, FIR was filed by one Sri
Puren Das before the O/C of Jamuguri Police Station.on.15.08.2016.

3. On receipt of the aforementioned FIR, the Officer-In-Charge of
Jamuguri Police Station registered a*case. being Jamuguri P.S. Case No 117/16,
under section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012.vide GDE No. 388 dated 15.08.2016. After
completion of the usual investigation, the O/C of Jamuguri Police Station sent up
the accused for trial by filingxcharge sheet u/s 4 of the POCSO Act against the

accused Sri Ganga Das.

4. The,accused.on appearing before this Court, after hearing both parties,
charge framed under section 6 of the POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused and
particulars.of the charge was read over, explained to the accused to which he

pleaded not.guilty and claimed to be tried.

5. To substantiate the case prosecution examined as many as eleven
numbers of witnesses and besides the aforementioned PWs, the prosecution side
also examined, Smt. Saruai Das and Sri Thitharaj Das as CW 1 and CW 2. After
completion of the prosecution evidence, the accused was examined u/s 313
Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and evidence which appear
against the accused were put before him for explanation where he denied the

evidence. To buttress the defence, the accused declined to give defence evidence.

 
Page 3 of 26

6. I have heard argument put forwarded by learned advocate of both the
parties.
7. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether the accused on or about 5:30
PM of 14.08.2016 at Chengelimara under
Jamugurihat PS, committed penetrative
sexual assault on the victim Miss "X” (10
years) and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 6 of« the
Protection of Child from Sexual Offences
Act?

REASONS, DECISIONS AND REASON FOR DECISION.

 

8. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on
record.
9. PW 1, Sri Puren Das, who. is the grandfather of Miss “X” has stated

that the incident took place in the year 2016°in the evening. Victim Miss “X” was
living in his house, as her mother‘had‘died. At the time of the incident, her age
was 10 years. When he returned back from his work, he did not find his
granddaughter, so, he asked “his wife Ghanakanti the whereabouts of his
granddaughter. She told himethat her father called her as her father has brought
one large fish. Therefore, she was invited by her father to have dinner. He was
waiting for his granddaughter to come, but, she did not come until 9 PM.
Thereafter, he came to know from his sister Saruai Das that his granddaughter
went'to the house of village headman from her father’s house. Then he rushed to
the house of village headman Prabhat Das. But, he did not find his
granddaughter there. In the next morning, his village headman told him that the
accused committed misdeed to his granddaughter and also asked him to go the
police station. Accordingly, he went to the police station and meet his
granddaughter there. On being asked, his granddaughter told him that her father
committed misdeed to her, therefore, she went to the house of village headman
Prabhat Das and informed him about the incident and accordingly, Prabhat Das
informed the matter to the police station. Then he lodged the ejahar before the

police station. The ejahar was written by one scribe. After writing the ejahar, the

 
Page 4 of 26

scribe read over the ejahar to him and on his satisfaction he put his signature
thereon. Ext.1 is the ejahar and Ext. 1(1) is his signature. Thereafter, police
registered the case and sent the victim for medical examination and also sent her
to the Court for recording her statement under Section 164 CrPC. Thereafter, the

victim was given custody to him. Now, the victim is studying in Class-V.

10. Though, he has been exposed to long cross-examination except giving
many suggestions, the evidence as to his granddaughter who is the victim in the
instant case resides with him since the death of her mother, she was called by
the accused to have dinner. Till 9 PM when the victim did not return, he came to
know from his sister Smt. Saruai Das that the victim went to theshouse of village
headman from the house of her father/accused. Accordingly».he rushed to the
house of village headman. In the next morning, the village headman told him
that accused committed misdeed to his granddaughter and also asked him to go
the police station. On being aware about:the incident from his granddaughter
that her father has committed misdeed to her, then he lodged the ejahar before

the police station has remained unchallenged:

11. PW 2, Sri Prabhat Chandra Das, who is the village headman has
stated in his evidence-in-chief.that he knows the complainant, the accused and
the victim of this case because they are all belongs to his “lat”. The incident took
place in the year 2017. At.the relevant time i.e. about 7 PM, he went to Jamuguri
Centre. At about 8.00 PM, victim Miss “X” came to their house informed his wife
Kobita Dassthat..""she was called by accused from the house of her grandfather to
have dinner, accordingly, she went there and in the house of accused, she was
locked.in a room and committed misdeed by the accused’. After his arrival his
wife reported him about the incident. He saw the victim who was sitting in the
veranda and her father i.e. the accused was found in his courtyard tide him by
the villager in a bamboo post with a rope. The victim told them in crying that she
did not like to see the face of her father. She also told them that accused
committed misdeed by opening her panty. Immediately, he informed the matter
to the police station. He took the victim and the accused to the police station in
his own car. At the relevant time, victim has crossed 11 years. During that time

probably she was studying in Class-IV. Police recorded his statement.

 
Page 5 of 26

12. Though, he had been exposed to long cross-examination without giving
any suggestions, the evidence as to on the date of the incident at about 8 PM,
victim Miss “X” came to their house, informed his wife Kobita Das that "she was
called by the accused from the house of her grandfather to have dinner,
accordingly, she went there and in the house of the accused, she was locked in a
room and was behaved inappropriately by the accused”. After his arrival his wife
reported him about the incident. He saw the victim girl who was sitting in the
veranda and the accused was found in his courtyard tied by a villager in a
bamboo post with a rope. The victim told them sobbing that she. did‘not.want to
see the face of her father. She also told them that the accused “committed

misdeed by opening her panty which has remained unchallenged.

13. PW 3, Smt. Kobita Das stated that shexknew the complainant, the
accused and the victim of this case because theyall belonged to their village. The
incident took place in the year 2017. At the relevant time i.e. about 7 PM her
husband went to Jamuguri Centre. At about 8.00 PM, victim Miss “X” came to
their house informed her that “she was called by accused from the house of her
grandfather to have dinner, accordingly, she went there and in the house of the
accused, the accused opened her'panty and committed rape on her and as such
she was suffering from ‘severe ‘pain. In the meantime, villagers came to their
house and attempted to assault the accused and held and tied him in a bamboo
post. After sometime, her husband arrived and reported him about the incident.
The victin» also reported the incident to her and to some of the villagers.
Thereafter, her husband being gaonburha along with some of the villagers took
the victim.and the accused to the police station. Police recorded her statement at

her house in the said night.

14, Though, she had been exposed to long cross-examination without
giving any or minor suggestions, the evidence, at the relevant time her husband
going towards Jamuguri Centre. At about 8.00 PM, victim Miss “X” came to their
house and informed her that “she was called by the accused from the house of
her grandfather to have dinner, accordingly, she went there and in the house of
the accused, the accused opened her panty and committed rape on her and as

such she was suffering from severe pain which has remained unchallenged.

 
Page 6 of 26

15. PW 4, Miss “X” who is the victim of this case was examined after
making due enquiry to know about her intelligence and rationality stated that the
incident took place about 1 year ago. As her father severely assaulted her
mother, she left their house. Her brother Bitu also lived at her uncle’s house and
her younger brother lived at her aunty’s (Jethai) house at Biswanath Chariali and
she lived with her grandfather. She stated that on the day of the incident at
about 7 PM, she was called by her father to have dinner as he brought meat. She
was invited at about 3:30 PM and thereafter, at about 4 PM she went to the
house of her father (accused) but her father did not provide her_rice.,Her father
after closing the door committed misdeed to her by opening her panty. She
stated that her father touched her private parts through.his private organ. She
become suffocated. At last by opening the door, she ran\away to the house of
village headman Prabhat uncle. As her uncle was not there, she reported the
matter to his wife Kobita aunty. On arrival ofs/her Gaon=Burah uncle, she reported
the incident in details to him. Her father after doing misdeed told her that he had
committed misdeed to her so she shouldsnotidisclose the same to anybody. If
she disclosed, the police would arrest.him. In the same day, she was taken to the
police station and her grandfather filed this case. Thereafter, she was medically
examined and her statement was_also recorded through the Ld. Magistrate. Ext
2 is her statement u/s 164\CrPC made before the Ld. Magistrate and Ext 1 (1-3)
are signatures therein. She stated that at the relevant time she was wearing a

black coloured*panty and also put white skirt with yellow sporting.

16. Though, she had been exposed to long cross-examination without
givingeany or minor suggestions, the evidence as to on the day of incident she
was invited by her father/accused to have dinner. Accordingly, she went there at
about 4 PM. In the home, her father did not provide her meal instead the
accused father after closing the door committed misdeed to her by touching her
private parts through his private organ and then she become suffocated. At last
she ran away by opening the door and went to the house of village headman
Prabhat uncle. But the village headman uncle was absent so she reported the
matter to Kobita aunty in details. On arrival of her Gaon Burah uncle, she

narrated the whole incident to him. It is also stated that after committing

 
Page 7 of 26

misdeed, the accused warned her not to disclose the matter to anybody,

otherwise police will arrest her father which has remained unchallenged.

17. PW 5, Sri Dilip Kumar Das, stated that he knows the accused Ganga
Das as well as the complainant of this case. He also knows the victim Miss “X”,
who is a student of his School namely Basudev LP School, Sengelimari where he
was the Headmaster. He stated that on 14-08-2016, he was posted as a
Headmaster of Basudev LP School, Sengelimari. He has brought the School
Admission Register of their School namely Basudev LP School, Sengelimari before
the Court containing record from 1992 till date for inspection. The prosecution
side exhibited the said School Admission Register as Ext.3 and\Ext. 3(1) is the
proved in original copy of the cover page of Ext.3. Extx.3(2) is.the relevant page
bearing page No 63 & 64 which contained the relevant‘admission entry of victim
Miss “X”. Ext. 3(3) is the proved in original copy of Ext. 3(2). Ext. 3(4) is the
Admission SL NO 237/D12 dated 28-01-2012 of Miss “X”, D/o Sri Ganga Da of
village Sengelimari. Ext. 3(5) is the proved in original copy of Ext. 3(4). As per
the said Admission Register, the date of birth of Miss “X” is mentioned as 11-04-
2006. He has also brought the.certificate book of their school namely Basudev LP
School, Sengelimari before the*court. Ext.4 is the original school certificate book
bearing No 26 dated 19-08-2016, and Ext. 4(1) is his signature as a Headmaster
of the said school. Ext, 4(2)is the proved in original copy of Ext.4. As per said
School certificate bookp.on 19-08-2016, age of Miss “X”, D/o Sri Ganga Das of

village Sengelimari is‘10 years 11 months 8 days.

18. In his cross examination, he admitted that Ext. 3 bears no signature
of School Inspector. There is some mark of whitener in the Serial Nos in Ext.
3(2). In Ext. 3(4), the date of birth of Miss “X” is written as 11-04-2006 in
Assamese and there in overwritten in the column of month of the said date. It is
not mentioned in Ext. 3(4) that on what basis the date of birth of victim Miss “X”
was written as on 11-04-2006.

19. PW 6, Sri Srimanta Das, stated before this court that he knew
accused Ganga Das as well as the victim Miss “X”, the daughter of accused. He
also knew the complainant Puren Das. The incident took place about 2 2 years

ago. The place of occurrence was opposite to his house. He is the Secretary of

 
Page 8 of 26

the village Sabha. He stated that at the relevant time, he along with his mother
after having dinner was sitting in the veranda of their house as there was no
electricity. During that time, victim Miss “X” came to him and reporting him that
her father committed misdeed to her, then he advised her to inform the matter
to village headman Prabhat Chandra Das. Accordingly, she went there and
informed the matter to the said village headman along with some other villagers.
Thereafter, he went to the house of village headman along with some villagers to
talk about the matter. The accused was caught and was taken to theshouse of
village headman by the villagers. At the time of incident, the said victimegirl was
about 10/11 years old.

20 In his cross examination, he admitted that.the house of Miss “X” was
at a distance of 100 metres from the house of accused. The victim girl usually
lived in the house of her maternal grandfather Puren Das. He stated that he did
not know when the victim came to the house of the accused. He told the age of
victim to be 10/11 years as a guess. He also did not know whether the victim did
study at a School or not. Police did not record his statement under Section 161
CrPC. What he had stated before the Court is deposed only for the first time.

21. PW 7, Dr. Jharna Kakoti, who is the medical officer of this case has
stated that on 15.08.2016;she was posted at as S.D.M & HO at Kanaklata Civil
Hospital, Tezpur. On» that, day, in reference to Jamuguri PS Case No. 117/16
under section’6 of POCSO Act, she examined one patient Miss “X”, 10 years,
female, daughter of Sri Ganga Das, residence of Chengelimara under Jamuguri
PS on ‘being escorted and identified by WPC Dipti Chetry. She examined the
victimson 15.08.2016 at 4:20 PM in the emergency and labour room of the
complex of the Kanaklata Civil Hospital, Tezpur in presence of GNM Anna Tirki

vide hospital registration No. 42976/16 and found the following:
Menstrual History: Menarche not attained.
Identification Mark: Mole on right upper part of chest.

According to the victim, history of attempted sexual assault on
14.08.2016 at about 7:30 PM by her father Ganga Das. The victim girl came

alone without guardian.

 
Page 9 of 26

O/E:- Height- 117 CM, Weight-17 cm, Teeth-6/6-6/6.

At the time of examination, she was well dressed, neat and tidy. Built
average. Gait normal. Secondary sexual characters were not developed. Vulva,
vagina healthy. Hymen present. No injury marks on her body as well as on her
private parts.

Investigations advised and report:- Vaginal smear for spermatozoa-no
sperm seen. Done at KCH Laboratory, Lab No. 5/16 on 15.08.2016.

OPINION:

(i) There is no mark of injury on her body as well as.on. her private parts at
the time of examination.

(1) There is no sign and symptoms of recent.sexual intercourse at the time
of examination.

Ext 5 is the medical report andy Ext 5(1) is her signature. Ext 6 is the
advice slip of KCH, Tezpur and Ext..6(1)sis her signature. Ext 7 is the police
requisition and Ext 7(1) is her,Signature. Ext 8 is the vaginal smear report of
KCH, Tezpur and Ext 8 (1) is the signature of Laboratory Technician of KCH,
Tezpur which she knows omofficial communication. In her opinion in the medical

report, the “recent”. means within 48 hours.

22. PW 8,.Sri Diku Das, who was hostile has stated before this court that
he knew.thexaccused Ganga Das as well as the victim Miss “X”, who is the
daughter. of the accused aged about 8/9 years. The incident took place about 1
Y years ago. Victim was his niece. He heard that victim Miss “X” was raped by
her father i.e. the accused. Police did not record his statement. Then he turned

hostile.

23. In cross examination by the prosecution, he denied the suggestion
that he had stated to police that “Miss "X” reported to him that while she was
sleeping at her father’s house, her father Ganga Das(accused) raped her by
opening her clothe. Then, she went out pretended to listen to nature’s call to the
house of village headman Prabhat Das and there she reported the matter to Smti

Kobita Das wife of Prabhat Das and the matter was disseminated in the village.

 
Page 10 of 26

On being aware about the incident, local public apprehended the accused and
handed over to the police station. During that time, at about 10/11 PM"’." He
denied the fact he had deposed falsely to save the accused who is his own

younger brother and that he has suppressing the material fact.

24. In cross examination by the defence, he admitted that he had not
stated before the police what the learned Special Public Prosecutor stated in the
Court. He admitted that he has stated whatever he heard from the villagers. He
had given statement to I/O. He admitted that he did not have«any personal
knowledge about the incident. Accused Ganga Das belongs to BPLxcategory and
has one house with single room. His house is adjacent (to the house of the
accused Ganga Das. Other than the victim, accused .Ganga*Das has two sons
namely Bitu Das, aged about 7 years and another.one is Paramananda aged
about 2 ’% years old. At the relevant day, Bitu Dasson of accused was with his
father. On the day of occurrence, he has not.seen Miss “X” coming to the house
of Ganga Das. He did not suspect that the accused has involved in such type of
offence. The wife of accused Bhaluki not\reside with the accused and her father

Puren Das fled from the house.of the accused.

25. PW 9, Sri Junti*Das, stated that he knew the accused Ganga Das as
well as the victim. The incident took place about 2 years ago. On the day of
incident, at about\8/8.30.p.m., he heard some boisterous noise on the roadside
and he rushed, to the house of Gaonburah Prabhat Chandra Nath where the
accused*Ganga.Das was apprehended and was being interrogated by the local
public.\Victim stated that the accused had committed misdeed by opening her
panty\in his house. Goanburah handed over the accused to police station at
about 9.30/10 p.m.

26. PW 10, SI Raju Kumar Chetry, who is the Investigating Officer of
this case has stated before this court that on 15.08.2016 he was posted as O/C
of Jamuguri PS. On that day, he received an ejahar filed by one Puren Das. On
receipt of the ejahar, he made GD Entry vide GDE No. 388 dated 15.08.2016 and
he took up the charge of the investigation of the case. Thereafter, he has
registered a case being Jamuguri PS Case No. 117/16 under section 6 of POCSO
Act. Ext 1 is the ejahar and Ext 1 (2) is his signature. Thereafter, he visited the

 
Page 11 of 26

place of occurrence and prepared a sketch map of the place of occurrence. Ext 9
is the sketch map and Ext 9(1) is his signature. He had also recorded the
statement of the witnesses, namely, complainant, victim, Diku Das, Prabhat Das,
Srimanta Das, Junti Das, Kabita Das, Tirtharaj Das and Smt. Saruai Das u/s 161
of CrPC. On the same day, he sent the victim for medical examination to KCH,
Tezpur. He also arrested the accused Ganga Das and forwarded him to the court
in connection with the Jamuguri PS Case No. 117/16. Next day, i.e. on
16.08.2016 he sent the victim girl to the court for recording her statement u/s
164 of CrPC. He also seized one birth certificate of the victim Miss.“X” to
ascertain the exact age of the victim. He also recorded the\statement of the
Head Master of Basudev LP School. Then he gave in zimma the school certificate
to the complainant as per request. As the date of birthsof the victim was
11.04.2006 therefore, on the day of occurrence ive. on 15:08.2016 her age was
10 years 4 months 3 days. He collected the medical=report from KCH, Tezpur,
after obtaining approval letter from concerning:S.P. and after completion of usual
investigation finding sufficient materials.against the accused Ganga Das, he filed
charge sheet u/s 4 of POCSO Act vide charge sheet No. 78/16 dated 31.08.2016
against him. Ext 10 is the charge sheet and Ext 10(1) is his signature.

He admitted that he, has recorded the statement of witness Diku Das
who stated before ‘him that “ Miss “X” reported him that while she was s/eeping
at her father’s house, her father Ganga Das(accused) raped her by opening her
clothe. Then».she went out pretended to listen to nature’s call to the house of
village headman*Prabhat Das and there she reported the matter to Smti Kobita
Das, wife. of Prabhat Das and the matter was disseminated in the village. On
being, aware about the incident, local public apprehended the accused and
handed him over to the police station. During that time, at about 10/11 PM"'.” Ext
11 is the case diary of Jamuguri PS Case No. 117/16, Ext 11(1) is the relevant

statement of the said witness Diku Das and Ext 11(2) is his signature.

27. In his cross examination, he admitted that the witness Prabhat Ch.
Das informed him about the incident over telephone immediately after the
occurrence. He made GD Entry. He stated that the witness Prabhat Ch. Das has
not stated before him that “At about 8.00 PM, victim Miss "X” came to their

 
Page 12 of 26

house, informed his wife Kobita Das that she was called by accused from the
house of her grandfather to have dinner, accordingly, she went there and in the
house of accused, she was locked in a room and committed misdeed by the
accused”. After his arrival, his wife reported him about the incident. He saw the
victim gitl who was sitting in the veranda and her father i.e. the accused was
found in his courtyard tied by the villagers in a bamboo post. The victim told
them crying that she did not like to see the face of her father. She also told them
that accused committed misdeed by opening her panty. Immediately, he
informed the matter to the police station. He took the victim, the accused and
two villagers to the police station in his own private car. At ‘the .relevant time,

victim had crossed 11 years. During that time, probably she studied.at Class-IV.”

He stated that witness Kobita Das had not,stated before him that “At
about 8.00 PM, victim Miss "X” came to their house. informed her that “she was
called by the accused from the house«<of her grandfather to have dinner,
accordingly, she went there and inthe house of the accused, the accused
opened her panty and committed rape on her and as such she was suffering
from severe pain. In the meantime, villagers came to their house and attempted
to assault him and tied him and*tide him in a bamboo post.” He stated that
witness Miss “X” had not stated before him that " as my father assaulted her
mother severely so her mother left the house, Bitu resides at the house of uncle
(Bordeuta) and.Paramananda Aunty (Jethai) and her father called her to have

rice and mutton at about 7 PM.”

He stated that witness Miss “X” had not stated before him that " Aer
father.did» not provide her food, her father by locking the door committed
misdeed on her, she went to the house of Prabhat Gaonburah but she did not
meet him, she informed about the incident to Saruai, at the time of occurrence,
she wore a black coloured skirt and white coloured sporting.” He stated that he
did not seize any wearing apparels of the victim. In the place of occurrence i.e.
in the house of the accused there is only one room but he did not mention in the

sketch map that how many doors and windows there are in the house.

28. PW 11, Miss. Bijaya Khakhlary is the Judicial Magistrate First Class,
Tezpur stated that on 16.08.2016 she was posted as Judicial Magistrate First

 
Page 13 of 26

Class, Tezpur and on that day, in reference to Jamuguri PS Case No. 117 of 2016
u/s 6 of POCSO Act, she had recorded the statement of one Miss Gayatri Das,
daughter of Sri Ganga Das of village Panpur Chengalimara under Jamuguri PS
u/s 164 of CrPC in her court chamber. The said victim was a student of Class VI
standard. The victim was escorted and identified by one Nayanjyoti Kalita, PLV
M. No. 17. The witness made statement voluntarily. She put some questions to
the victim. It appeared that the victim was able to answer the questions put to
her and also able to give rational answers to the questions. After recording her
statement, she read over the contents of the statement recorded.u/s‘164.CrPC to
the victim and on acceptance, the said victim put her signature thereon. Ext 2 is
the statement of the victim u/s 164 of CrPC and Ext 2 (4) is her signature. Vide
Ext 12, order dated 16.08.2016, Ld. Special Judge, Sonitpur, Tezpur directed her
to record the statement of the victim. Ext 12(2)\is her order dated 16.08.2016
and Ext 12(3) is her signature. Her cross» examination was declined by the

defence.

29. CW 1, Smt. Saruai Das, stated that she knew accused Ganga Das
who was her co-villagers. She also knew the complainant and victim Miss “X”.
The incident took place about"1“Y% years ago. On the night of the incident, a
commotion took place in. the,house of Gaonburha. On hearing commotion, she
came to the place of occurrence. There she saw many people gathered there and
the accused was tied with a rope by the local public. She did not see the victim

there. Shevheard that the father of the victim committed rape to the victim.

30. In her cross examination, she admitted that she deposed for the first
time in the Court. She could not say whether the local public stated correctly or

wrongly whether the accused has committed rape to his own daughter.

31. CW 2, Sri Thitharaj Das stated that he knew both the accused
Gangaram Das and the victim Miss “X”. He could not recall exactly when the
incident took place. Their village headman resided behind their house. On
hearing commotion in the house of village headman, he went there and saw a

gathering there. His cross examination was declined by the defence.

 
Page 14 of 26

32. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case. Defence plea is

total denial while his statement was recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C.

33. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the prosecution has
failed to prove the case beyond any reasonable doubt. Firstly, the victim is her
own daughter so it is impossible to commit such type of penetrative sexual
assault to his own daughter. Secondly, if a matured person forcefully committed
rape or cause penetrative sexual assault to a young girl of 10 years she must
have sustained injury not only on her private parts but also on «her, body but
according to the doctor’s report in this case shows that the victimssustained no
mark of any injury. Even doctor did not find any sign or symptoms and recent
sexual intercourse at the time of examination. Thirdly, there_is only one eye
witness i.e. the victim who is a minor. There is ample evidence that her father,
the accused assaulted her mother and caused her atrocities, as a result of which
her mother left her own home. Even the younger brother of the victim also left
her father’s house so out of grudge.she might have made such a false and
concocted story which is absurd to ‘believe. Fourthly, there are many
contradictions among the statement ofthe witnesses under such circumstances,

the prosecution has failed to\prove'the case beyond any reasonable doubt.

34. On the other hand, Learned Special Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur
submitted that the.prosecution has ably proved the case beyond any reasonable
doubt. Hence,;“the accused person was required to be convicted under the said
charged«sections of law. Ld. Special Public Prosecutor also submitted that in fact
there is.no.any quarrel, no enmity between the accused and the complainant to
file.this false case. Even if there is any short of strangulation between the
accused and the complainant, it would not be believable to think that the
grandfather may file this false case against the accused person by involving in

her own minor granddaughter is such a heinous allegation.

35. Keeping in mind, the rival submissions advanced by the learned

counsels of both the parties, I am going to dispose of the case as follows.

36. I have thoroughly perused the case laws cited by the learned Senior

Counsel for the accused.

 
Page 15 of 26

37. The defence plea is total denial while the statement of the accused was
recorded u/s 313 of CrPC.

38. As stated herein above, to substantiate the case prosecution has
examined as many as eleven numbers of witnesses. Out of eleven numbers of
witnesses four numbers of witnesses are official witnesses. They are PW 5, Sri
Dilip Kr Das teacher, who submitted the School Admission Register as well as
Certificate. PW 7, Dr. Jharna Kakoti, who examined the victim, PW 10,.SI Raju
Kumar Chetry, the investigating officer and PW 11, the Ld. Magistrate), who
recorded the statement of the victim u/s 164 of CrPC. Therefore, ‘there remains
only seven numbers of non-official witnesses. It may be mentioned that two
numbers of court witnesses were also examined in»this.case. Out of seven
numbers of non-official witnesses one i.e PW 8, who turned hostile. Then there

remains only six numbers of non-official witnesses.

39. Let us discuss the evidence of these witnesses. PW 1, the complainant
undoubtedly is an eye witness .to\the occurrence. He stated that his
granddaughter used to live with himysince*her mother had died. At the time of
incident, her age was 10 years. When he returned back from his work, he did not
find his granddaughter,“so,, he asked his wife Ghanakanti whereabouts of his
granddaughter. She.told him that her father called her as her father has brought
one large fish. Therefore, the father accused took her to his house to have
dinner. Though, he is waiting for his granddaughter to come, but, she did not
come till 9.PM. Thereafter, he came to know from his sister Saruai Das that his
victim ‘granddaughter went to the house of village headman from her father’s
house» Then he rushed to the house of village headman Prabhat Das. But, he did
not find his granddaughter there. In the next morning, his village headman told
him that accused committed misdeed to his granddaughter and also asked him
to go the police station. Accordingly, he went to the police station and meet his
granddaughter there. On being asked his granddaughter, she told him that her
father committed misdeed to her, therefore, she went to the house of village
headman Prabhat Das and informed him about the incident and accordingly,
Prabhat Das informed the matter to the police station. Then he lodged the ejahar

before the police station.

 
Page 16 of 26

40. The undisputable evidence of the victim is that on the day of incident at
about 3:30 PM she was invited by her father accused to have dinner as he brings
meat for her. Accordingly, she went there at about 4 PM but her accused father
did not provide her meal instead the accused after closing the door misdeed to
her by opening her panty and touches her private parts through his private
organ. She started suffocating. She ran away by opening the door to the house
of village headman and as the village headman was not there so she informed
the matter to the wife of the village headman. On arrival of her Gaon, Burah
uncle, she reported in details to him about the incident. Her father.after doing
misdeed told her that he committed misdeed to her so she.should not disclose
the same to anybody. If she discloses, the police will arrest.him. Then, she was
taken to the police station by her Gaonburah uncle. After instituting the case by
her grandfather her statement was recorded “by the \police. She was also
medically examined and thereafter, she was»taken, before the Ld. Magistrate to

record her statement u/s 164 of CrPC where she narrated the whole story.

CW 1 also stated that onthe night of the incident there was a meeting
took place in the house of Gaonburhavand while she went there she saw many
people gathered there and the accused was tied with a rope by the local public.
But she did not see the victim there. She heard that father of victim committed
rape to the victim. No doubt she made such a statement for the first time only

before the court.

41. Ityis seen that except the victim, there was no any eye witness to the
occurrence. but in the instant case, the victim came to the house of the
Gaonburah and reported the matter to the wife of the Gaonburah and on arrival
of. Gaonburah the victim narrated the whole incident to him and then the
Gaonburah took the victim to police station. In the meantime, on caming to know
about the incident the local public apprehended the accused and took him to the

house of the Gaonburah and tied him with a rope which is corroborated by them.

42. PW 3, wife of village headman to whom the victim informed about the
incident stated that at about 8.00 PM, victim Miss “X” came to their house
informed her that “she was called by the accused from the house of her

grandfather to have dinner, accordingly, she went there and in the house of the

 
Page 17 of 26

accused, the accused opened her panty and committed rape on her and as such
she was suffering from severe pain. In the meantime, villagers came to their
house and attempt to assault him and held him and tied him in a bamboo post.
After sometime, on arrival of her husband, she reported about the incident to
him. The victim also reported about the incident to her husband and to some of
the villagers. Thereafter, her husband being gaonburha along with some of the

villagers, took the victim and the accused to the police station.

43. The Ld. Magistrate who recorded the statement of the victim u/s 164 of
CrPC confirmed in a court that she has recorded the statement ofsthewwictim on
16.08.2016 where the victim made the statement voluntarily. The.Ld. Counsel for
the accused submitted that the statement of the prosecution_witnesses, some

contradictions are appears. As such the said statement was not reliable.

In Boya Ganganna Vs. State of Andhra Pradesh reported in AIR
1976 SC 1541 wherein it is held —

“Minor contradictions are ‘boundsto appear when ignorant and illiterate
women are providing evidence. Even in case of trained and educated persons,
memory sometimes play false~and this would be much more so in case of
ignorant and rustic women. Itmust also be remembered that the evidence given
by a witness would. very much depend upon his power of observation and it is
possible that some aspects of an incident may be observed by one witness while
they may. not.be witnessed by another though both are present at the scene of

offence.”

As stated above as raised by learned counsel for the accused, there are
some slight minor contradictions appears in the statement of the witnesses. Even

if admitted the said contradictions, the prosecution case would not change.

44. Learned Counsel for the accused again submitted that Ext 5 the medical
report did not state the age of the victim. Besides that the victim stated in her
statement that on the date of recording her statement i.e. on 13.02.2018 she
was 11 years. PW 1, the complainant as well as the grandfather of the victim
stated that at the time of incident the victim was about 10 years old. It appears

that during the investigation the Investigating Officer collected one school

 
Page 18 of 26

certificate issued by the head master of Basudev LP School, Sengelimari where it
was seen that the date of birth of the victim was 11.04.2006. PW 5, Sri Dilip Kr
Das, who was the head master of Basudev LP School, Sengelimari, who has
issued the Ext 3(2). He also brought the School Admission Register vide Ext 3
and Ext 3(1) is the proved in original copy of the cover page of Ext.3. Ext. 3(2) is
the relevant page bearing page No. 63 & 64 which contains the relevant
admission entry of victim Miss “X”, which he proved in original copy. Since the
alleged incident took place on 14.08.2016 so on the date of the incident the
victim was 10 years, 4 months and 3 days. However, that. has: not been
challenged by the defence at any point of time. Therefore, it can\be ‘safely held

that the victim was a minor of below 12 years.

45. In the case of K. Muthu Mariappan — Vs — State, represented by the
Inspector of Police, Criminal Appeal (MD), it was held that it is true that
primary evidence to prove the date of birth.of the individual may be preferably
the birth certificate. But, it cannot be said that in.absence of birth certificate, the
date of birth cannot be proved. When, the age of the individual is not disputed,
the question of proving the same does‘not arise at all. It is the settled law that a
fact in issue or any relevant factor any fact relevant to the issue, which is
disputed by the adverse party,alone, needs proof. If it is not disputed, there is no

need to lead any evidence in‘proof of the said admitted fact.

46. In this, case, the victim and her parents categorically stated the age of
the victim\was 10 years from the very beginning of the case, at the time of
commission of offence, besides during cross examination, the same has not been
disputed at all by the accused side. Thus, the evidence of PWs in respect of age

of the victim remains unchallenged.

47. In the case in hand, the victim has been consistent on the material
particulars with regard to the incident that on the day of incident, the victim was
called by her father accused to have dinner as he brings meat. Accordingly, at
about 4 PM she went to the house of her father accused but her father did not
provide her any meal instead the accused after closing the door by opening her
pant, touched her private parts through his private sexual organ. Thereafter, she

started suffocating. She ran away by opening the door to the house of village
Page 19 of 26

headman and as the village headman was not there so she informed the matter
to the wife of the village headman. On arrival of the village headman, she
narrated the whole story in details to him. Then, she was taken to the police
station. It appears that her statement is supported by PW 1, the complainant as
well as the grandfather of the victim, PW 2, the village headman, PW 3, the wife
of the village headman. Their statements are corroborated to each other. Though
the victim and the other witnesses including the grandfather of the victim, PW 2
and PW 3 are exposed to long cross examination but their evidence. remain
unchallenged. The evidence of victim is found to be cogent, straightforward and

reliable. There cannot be any doubt to disbelieve the evidence of the victim.

48. Undoubtedly in a criminal trial any such lapse.on the.part of accused is
not leading any defence evidence would not have mattered much as prosecution
is supposed to prove its case beyond shadows ofvall‘reasonable doubts. However,
in a case under POCSO Act, the situation is not so. In this regard, it will be
worthwhile to refer to the provisions of Section 29 and 30 of POCSO Act.

49. U/s. 29 of POCSO Act,“a mandatory presumption for certain offence is
to be drawn against the accused ina prosecution for certain offences and same

reads as under:

“29. Presumption as to certain offences — Where a person is prosecuted
for committing‘or abetting or attempting to commit any offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and
Section 9vof.this Act, the Special Court shall presume that such person has
committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the case may be,

unless:the contrary is proved.

50. Similarly, Section 30 of POCSO Act mandates that the Special Court
shall draw a presumption of the existence of culpable mental state of the
accused where culpable mental state is required on the part of the accused.

Section 30 reads as under:

“30. Presumption of culpable mental state — (1) In any prosecution for
any offence under this Act which requires a culpable mental state on the part of

the accused, the Special Court shall presume that existence of such mental state

 
Page 20 of 26

but it shall be a defence for the accused to prove the fact that he had no such

mental state with respect to the act charged as an offence in that prosecution.

(2) For the purpose of this section, a fact is said to be proved only when
the Special Court believes it to exist beyond reasonable doubt and not merely

when its existence is established by a preponderance of probabilities.

51. The use of expression “shall presume” has been defined in Section 4 of
the Indian Evidence Act. As contrasted from the expression “if presume”, the
expression “shall presume” whenever used connotes “legal presumption” or
“compulsory presumption” as contrasted from “factual. \presumption” or
“discretionary presumption” emanating from the expression “may presume”.
“Legal presumptions” or “compulsory presumption” as.are ‘signified by the use of
expression “shall presume” are inferences or proposition established by law,
which the law peremptorily requires to be» made. whenever the facts appear
which it assumes as the basis of that inference. The presumptions of law are in
reality rules of law, and part of the law.itself and the court may draw inference

whenever the requisite facts are, developed in pleadings.

52. Similarly whenevervany law prescribes that the Court shall presume the
existence of culpable mandatory state or to draw a presumption regarding
commission of any offence, unless the contrary is proved, the onus to prove the
contrary undoubtedly shifts upon the accused. Certainly, it does not discharge
the prosecution of its duty to first establish and prove the facts, the existence of
which, can only lead to drawing of any such compulsory presumption or legal
presumption, by the use of the expression “shall presume”. Thus, as per Section
29, if.a person is prosecuted for committing or abating or attempting to commit
any offence u/s.3, 5, 7 and 9 of POCSO Act, the Special Court shall presume that
such person has committed or abated or attempted to commit the said offence
as the case may be unless the contrary is proved. However, in the present case,
the accused has completely failed in discharging his burden even by

preponderance of probabilities much less beyond reasonable doubt.

53. Coming now to the fact as to whether conviction can be recorded on the

sole testimony of a child witness or not? This issue was dealt by the Hon’ble

 
Page 21 of 26

Apex Court in Virendra — Vs — State of U.P., (2008) 16 SCC, which are

reproduced as under:

“The Evidence Act does not prescribe any particular age as a
determinative factor to treat a witness to be a competent one. On the contrary,
Section 118 of the Evidence Act envisages that who may testify — all persons
shall be competent to testify unless the Court considers that they are prevented
from understanding the questions put to them, or from giving rational answers to
those questions, by tender years, extreme old age, disease, whether of body or

mind, or any other cause of the same kind.”

54, A child of tender age can be allowed to testify if he or she has
intellectual capacity to understand questions and give rational answers thereto.
The evidence of a child witness is not required*to be rejected per se, but the
Court as a rule of prudence considers such evidence with close scrutiny and only
on being convinced about the quality thereof and reliability can record conviction,

based thereon.

55. In Dattu Ramrao Sakhare\— Vs — State of Maharashtra, (1997)
5 SCC 341, it was held that.a child witness if found competent to depose to the
facts and reliable one such evidence could be the basis of conviction. In other
words, even in the absence of oath the evidence of a child witness can be
considered u/si118 ‘of ‘the Evidence Act provided that such witness is able to
understand the questions and able to give rational answer thereof. The evidence
of a child witness and credibility thereof would depend upon the circumstances of
each “case. The only precaution which the Court should bear in mind while
assessing the evidence of a child witness is that the witness must be a reliable
one and his/her demeanour must be like any other competent witness and there

is no likelihood of being tutored.

56. Subsequently, in Ratansingh Dalsukhbahai Nayak — Vs — State of
Gujarat, (2004) 1 SCC 64, it was held that the decision on the question
whether the child witness has sufficient intelligence primarily rests with the trial
Judge who notices his manners, his apparent possessions or lack of intelligence,

and the said Judge may resort to any examination which will tend to disclose his

 
Page 22 of 26

capacity and intelligence as well as his understanding of the obligation of an
oath.

57. Coming to the present case, as discussed herein above at the time of
examination of the victim, some questions were put to her and she replied the
same without any hesitation and this Court hold that the victim was able to give
rational answers and thereafter her statement was recorded on oath. Apart from
that, PW 1, PW 2 and PW 3 clearly supported the evidence of PW 4 (victim) and
the victim’s statement are also corroborated with her statement made before the
I/O u/s 161 CrPC and also made before the Ld. Magistrate u/s»164, of CrPC.
While the statement of the accused was recorded u/s 313 CrP€ he has stated
nothing but denied about the incident. There is no any.evidence that complainant
had any quarrel or enmity to falsely implicate the\xaccused in such a heinous
crime. Even if some enmity with the accused\it\is absurd to think that the
complainant filed this false case against the accused) by involving her own minor
granddaughter in such a heinous crime. The prosecution has ably submitted the
School Certificate to confirm about the age of the victim. The Head Master who
issued the certificate has proved the certificate. Therefore, we must hold that at

the time of the incident, the victimmwas only 10 years old.

58. On appreciation of the evidence given by the victim, her grandfather,
the village headman andsthe wife of the village headman and other independent
witnesses, I-find ‘that the accused attempted to sexual assault on the victim. It
appears«that medical evidence no way supported the materials of penetrative
sexual ‘assault» as the doctor stated that no injury found in the private parts of
the.victim and also in the body. Here in the present case, the victim is below 12
years at the time of occurrence. According to Section 9 (m) aggravated sexual
assault whoever commits sexual assault on a child below twelve years. Section
10 of POCSO Act prescribes the punishment for the offence defined u/s.9 for a
term which shall not be less than five years but which may extend to seven years
and shall also be liable to a fine. Hence, I convict the accused Sri Ganga Das U/s
10 of the POCSO Act. Accused is acquitted from the charge u/s 6 of POCSO Act.

 
Page 23 of 26

59. The accused is heard on the point of sentence where he prayed for
leniency stating that he is the only bread earner of his family. He has been in jail

hajot for about two years, hence praying for leniency.

60. I have heard learned Counsel for the accused as well as Learned Special

Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur.

61. Turning to the question of sentence, it is the settled law that while
deciding the quantum of punishment, it is required that the Court should.strike a
balance between aggravating circumstances and mitigating circumstances. The
aggravating circumstances relate to the crime and mitigating \circumstances
relate to the criminal. In this case, so far as the aggravating circumstances are
concerned, a minor girl was sexually exploited. The wound caused to the girl is
not only to the body but also to the mind of not.only,to.the victim but that of
entire family members, but considering the mitigating circumstances, the
accused was hardly 38 years of age at the time of the incident. It is not brought
to the notice of this Court that before this.incident, the accused had committed
any other offence. There is likelinoodvofhis reformation, but the statute u/s.10 of
POCSO Act prescribes minimum punishment for a term of five years with fine.
When the intention of theslegislator is to impose stringent punishment for not
less than five years,.this court has no option but to impose minimum punishment

of five years and afine.
QO R_D_E R

62. I convict the accused Sri Ganga Das u/s. 10 of POCSO Act and
sentence him to Rigorous Imprisonment for 5 (Five) years and also to pay a fine
of.Rs.500/- (Rupees Five Hundred only), in default, Rigorous Imprisonment for
one month. The period, which he detained in custody, shall be set off from the

period of imprisonment, imposed on him.

63. As per provision of section 357 (A) of the Cr.P.C, the victim
compensation is permissible in law. After going through the statement of
witnesses, I think the victim is entitled to get the compensation. To mitigating
the mental agony and trauma suffered by the victim, an amount of Rs. 30,000/-

(Rupees Thirty Thousand) only is awarded as compensation.

 
Page 24 of 26

64. The Secretary, District Legal Aid Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur be

asked to give the compensation to the grandfather of the victim after proper

enquiry.

65. Let a copy of the Judgment be sent to the Secretary, District Legal Aid

Services Authority, Sonitpur, Tezpur for necessary action.

66. A copy of this judgment be furnished to the accused free of cost

immediately.

67. Let another copy of Judgment be sent to Learned District Magistrate,
Sonitpur, Tezpur, u/s 365 of Cr.P.C.

68. Let the G.R Case No. 2613/2016 be sent to Ld. committal Court along with

a copy of Judgment.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 8" day of
August, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Sri Janmoni Deka, Steno

 
Page 25 of 26

A-N-N-E-X-U-R-E

1. PRESECUTION WITNESSES

PW 1 :- Sri Puren Das, the Informant

PW 2 :- Sri Prabhat Chandra Das, Village Head Man

PW 3 :- Smt. Kobita Das

PW 4 :- Miss “X”, Victim

PW 5 :- Sri Dilip Kumar Das,

PW 6 :- Sri Srimanta Das

PW 7 :- Dr. Jharna Kakoti, Medical Officer

PW 8 :- Sri Diku Das

PW 9 :- Sri Junti Das

PW 10 :- SI Raju Kumar Chetry, the.Investigating Officer
PW 11 :- Miss. Bijaya Khakhlary, J.M.F.C. Sonitpur, Tezpur

2. WITNESSES FOR DEFENCE _§:-.NIL

3. PROSECUTION EXHIBITS:

Exhibit 1 + FIR
Exhibit 2 :- Statement of the victim Miss “X” u/s 164 CrPC
Exhibit,3 :- School Admission Register

Exhibit 3(1)« :- Original copy of the cover page of Ext.3.

Exhibit 3(2) :- Relevant page bearing page No 63 & 64 which contains
the relevant admission entry of victim Miss “X”.

Exhibit 3(3) — :- Original Copy of Ext. 3(2)

Exhibit 3(4) :- Admission SL NO 237/D12 dated 28-01-2012 of Miss

“\"

Exhibit 3(5) —:- Original Copy of Ext. 3(4)

Exhibit 4 :- Original School Certificate Book bearing No 26 dated
19-08-2016

Exhibit 4(1) :- Signature of PW 5 as Head Master

 
Page 26 of 26

Exhibit 4(2) — :- Original Copy of Ext.4

Exhibit 5 :- Medical Report

Exhibit 6 :- Advice Slip

Exhibit 7 :- Police Requisition

Exhibit 8 :- Vaginal Smear Report of KCH, Tezpur

Exhibit 9 :- Sketch Map

Exhibit 10 :- Charge Sheet

Exhibit 11 :- Case diary of Jamuguri PS Case No. 117/16

Exhibit 11(1) :- Relevant statement of witness Diku.Das

Exhibit 12 :- Order dated 16.08.2016, Ld. Special Judge, Sonitpur,
Tezpur

Exhibit 12(2) :- Order dated 16.08.2016 passed by PW 11
Exhibit 12(3) :- Signature of PW 11

4. COURT WITNESSES :
CW 1 :- Smt. Saruai Das

CW 2 :- Sri Thitharaj Das

5. DEFENCE EXHIBITS: NIL

(Ashok Kumar Borah)

SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
