IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present:- Sri Vinod Kumar Chandak, M.A., M.Com, LL.B., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL CASE NO. 12 OF 2016
(G.R. Case No. 337 of 2016)
Teok P.S. Case No. 49 of 2016

Committing Magistrate:-

Smt. Sharmila Bhuyan,
Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Jorhat District

State of Assam

Versus

Sri Mridul Bora,
Son of Sri Bokul Bora,
Resident of Dhekiani Bhorolowa Gaon,

P.S. Teok,

District-Jorhat. ... Accused
APPEARANCES:

For the State : Sri M.R. Barooah, Special Public Prosecutor, Jorhat

For the Accused: Sri Pulin Barthakur, Learned Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTIONS 376/511 OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 8 OF THE PROTECTION OF CHILDREN FROM
SEXUAL OFFENCES ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 25-04-2016
Date of prosecution evidence : 18-05-2016; 31-05-2016; 27-07-2016;

15-09-2016; and 10-01-2017

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 30-05-2017
Date of Argument : 14-06-2017
Date of Judgment : 21-06-2017

SPECIAL CASE NO. 12 OF 2016
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, is that Teok P.S. Case No.
49/2016 under Section 8 of The Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 was registered on the basis of an F.I.R. lodged by
informant Smt. Madhabi Saikia, mother of the victim girl [hereinafter referred to
as ‘X’].

In the aforesaid F.I.R. dated 03/02/2016 [Exhibit-2] the
informant Smt. Madhabi Saikia [PW-2] who is the mother of the victim girl,
alleged, inter-alia, that on 02/02/2016 at about 10.30 A.M. while she was not
present in her house at that time accused arrived at her house and thereafter
tore off the cloths of her minor daughter who was a student of Class-X and
thereafter attempted to commit rape upon her. It is further stated in the ejahar
by the informant that the accused touched the whole body and private parts of
victim.

On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the Officer-in-charge, Teok
P.S. the same was registered as Teok P.S. Case No. 49/2016 under Section
8 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

During the course of investigation the victim girl was medically
examined by the doctor, her statement under Section 164 of Cr.P.C. was
recorded by the learned Magistrate. The police on completion of investigation
filed charge-sheet in the case against the above named accused Mridul Bora u/S.
448 of IPC read with Section 8 of The Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 vide Charge-sheet No. 27/2016 dated 27/02/2016.

2). The learned Chief Judicial Magistrate, Jorhat, after furnishing copies of
the relevant documents to the accused forwarded the case to this Court for trial

as the offence were found under POCSO Act apart from offence under IPC.

3). Upon consideration of the record of the case and the documents
submitted therewith and after hearing the submissions of the accused and the
prosecution in this behalf, I found sufficient ground for presuming that the
accused has committed offences under Sections 376/511 of IPC read with
Section 8 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 12 OF 2016
Accordingly, the charges were framed, read over and explained to the accused,

to which, the accused pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4). During the course of trial, 7 [seven] witnesses including the victim,
her parents, the Medical Officer and the I.O0. were examined on behalf of the
prosecution to prove the charge u/Ss. 376/511 of IPC read with Section 8 of The
Protection of Children From Sexual Offences Act, 2012.

On completion of prosecution evidence, statement of above named
accused was recorded u/S. 313 of Cr.P.C. The accused stated that he has been
falsely implicated in the case. The accused stated that parent of the victim had
previous enmity/grudge with him and hence they lodged false ejahar against
him. The accused pleaded innocence. However, no witness was adduced by the

accused in his defence to substantiate his claim.

5). I have heard Sri Mukti Ranjan Barooah, learned Senior Advocate-
cum-Special Public Prosecutor for the State as well as Sri Pulin Borthakur, learned
Counsel for the accused, who is facing trial for commission of offence u/Ss.
376/511 of IPC read with Section 8 of The Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012.

6). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-

1) Whether on 02/02/2016 at about 10.30 A.M. morning in absence
of the informant in her house the accused attempted to commit
rape on the minor daughter of the informant and thereby
committed an offence punishable under Sections 376/511 of
IPC?

2) Whether on the date of occurrence the accused, named above,
committed sexual assault upon the minor victim girl as defined
under Section 7 of The Protection of Children From Sexual
Offences Act, 2012 and thereby committed an _ offence
punishable under Section 8 of the Act?

SPECIAL CASE NO. 12 OF 2016
DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

7). First of all, let me examine, analyze and appreciate the evidence of

the witnesses along with the relevant documents.

8). PW-1 is the victim [X] who divulged during her testimony that on
the relevant day she was studying in her room. At that time her parents were not
present in the house. The accused arrived at her house at about 10/30 A.M. It is
further version of the victim that her grandmother, who is an old lady being
physically impaired having weak eyesight, was present in the residence. The
accused called her grandmother for sometime. When her grandmother heard the
voice of accused she requested accused to sit in the room and not to disturb her
as she had to appear in the Matriculation Examination. But the accused did not
pay any heed to the request made by her grandmother. It is her further version
that accused entered into her room, wanted to tear off her clothes, put his hand
in her private part and also touched her chest and breast. At that time she was
wearing a salwar pant. She somehow pushed the accused and thereafter ran
outside the house. Further version of the victim is that she called the wife of
accused and disclosed the incident before her. When her mother returned back
home from the Panchayat office she narrated the incident before her mother. It
is also stated by the victim that when she narrated the fact to the wife of
accused, she in turn alongwith the mother of victim requested her not to speak
the fact before her father. Her mother lodged ejahar before police. She also
deposed that she gave statement before the Magistrate and she marked Exhibit-
1 to be her statement and her signature thereon as Exhibit-1 [1] to Exhibit-1 [4].
It is her further version that police also produced her before a doctor for medico-
legal check-up.

During cross-examination, she divulged that prior to the date of
incident there was enmity between their families. She admitted that on the date
of incident her grandmother was present alongwith her whose eyesight and
hearing is weak. She denied defence suggestion that due to enmity between
their families her mother had lodged false case against the accused. She also

denied all the defence suggestions put to her during cross-examination.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 12 OF 2016
9). Smt. Madhabi Saikia [PW-2] is the mother of victim. During her
testimony she stated that on the date of incident she was not present in the
house as she went to Panchayat office alongwith the mother of accused. When
she returned back home, her daughter [PW-1] disclosed the incident to her. It is
her further version that the accused arrived near the table of her daughter, took
her mathematics book for sometime. The grandmother of the victim requested
the accused to come out of the room but accused did not pay any heed to the
request of her grandmother. After knowing the incident, she arrived at the house
of accused and questioned the wife of accused about the incident, to which,
accused’s wife gave positive reply. Then she lodged ejahar before police which
she exhibited as Exhibit-2 and her signature as Exhibit-2 [1].

Police arrived at her house, took her daughter before a doctor for
medico legal check-up. Her daughter was also produced before the Magistrate
for recording statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. It is her version that police
also seized the birth certificate of her daughter on being produced by her vide
seizure-list [Exhibit-3] wherein Exhibit-3 [1] is her signature. She further stated
that wearing apparels of the victim were also seized by police vide seizure-list
[Exhibit-3].

This witness during cross-examination stated that prior to the date of
incident there was no enmity between the families but after the incident the
relationship between both families became strained. She further stated that she
asked her mother-in-law about the incident and her mother-in-law disclosed
before her that accused arrived at their house on the relevant day, she requested
the accused to come out of the room of the victim but he did not pay any heed
to the request made by her mother-in-law. She denied all the defence suggestion
put to her including the suggestion that no such type of incident occurred on the

relevant day.

10). Sri Tipeswar Saikia [PW-3] who is the father of victim divulged
during his testimony that on the date of incident he was not present in the house
as he went to his office. When he returned back home he came to know about
the incident from his wife. He then suggested his wife to lodge ejahar before

police. It is his further version that police recorded statement of his daughter,

SPECIAL CASE NO. 12 OF 2016
took her before a doctor for her medico legal check-up as well as before the
learned Magistrate for recording statement. Police also seized the birth certificate
of his daughter vide seizure-list [Exhibit-3] wherein Exhibit-3 [2] is his signature.
He categorically stated during his testimony that date of birth of his daughter
was 01/04/2000.

This witness during cross-examination denied the defence
suggestion that no such type of incident occurred on the relevant day. He

admitted that accused is a married person having his wife and school going son.

11). PW-4 is Sri Badan Saikia. He stated that he knows accused as well
as the victim. On the next day the mother of victim arrived at his residence and
disclosed to him that on the previous day accused arrived at her house in her
absence and thereafter grabbed her daughter. He came out of his house as his
mother and sisters were present inside the house. He categorically stated that he
does not know what victim had stated before police.

During cross-examination, he stated that he has not witnessed the

incident. He came to know about the incident from the mother of victim.

12). Sri Miraj Doley [PW-5] is the investigating officer of the case. During
his testimony he divulged that on the date of incident the informant arrived at
Teok P.S. and lodged ejahar before police. He was entrusted with the charge of
investigation. He exhibited the ejahar of informant as Exhibit-2 wherein Exhibit-2
[2] was the endorsement with signature of Sri Amrit Singh, the then Officer-in-
charge, Teok P.S.

During investigation he examined the informant as well as victim. The
victim was taken before a doctor for medico legal examination. It is further
stated by him that the victim was produced before the learned Magistrate for
recording statement under Section 164 Cr.P.C. He further divulged that one birth
certificate of the victim alongwith her salwar kurta being torn by left side was
seized by him on being produced by the informant as well as victim of the instant
case. He also arrested the accused in connection with the case. It is further
stated by him that he examined witnesses who were acquainted with the fact

and circumstance of the case. Further version of this witness is that he also drew

SPECIAL CASE NO. 12 OF 2016
Sketch Map of the place of occurrence vide Exhibit-4 wherein Exhibit-4 [1] is his
signature. After collecting medico legal report of the victim from the concerned
doctor together with the statement from the court, he submitted charge-sheet
against the accused.

During cross-examination, he stated that as per statement of the
victim recorded by the learned Magistrate under Section 164 Cr.P.C. coupled with
her statement under Section 161 Cr.P.C. he has submitted charge-sheet against

the accused under the aforesaid provision of law.

13). Dr. Amrita Nath [PW-6] examined the victim on 04/02/2016 as per
police requisition and on examination she did not find any injury on the person of
the victim [X]; there was no recent sexual intercourse detected on the person of
victim and the age of victim was above 18 years and below 20 years. She
exhibited her report as Exhibit-5 and her signature thereon as Exhibit-5 [1] to
Exhibit-5 [3].

Defence side declined to cross-examine the doctor.

14). Sri Manash Mishra [PW-7] is a businessman whose evidence is of
no help to the prosecution as he stated that he does not know anything

regarding the incident.

15). From a close perusal of the evidence on record it is seen that
nowhere in the statement of the victim [PW-1] who is the star witness of the
instant case has stated that the accused had committed rape upon her. Rather,
the victim has divulged that on the relevant day she was studying in her room. At
that time her parents were not present in the house. The accused arrived at her
house at about 10/30 A.M. It is further version of the victim that her
grandmother who is an old lady being physically impaired having weak eyesight
was present in the residence. The accused called her grandmother for sometime.
When her grandmother heard the voice of accused she requested accused to sit
in the room and not to disturb her as she had to appear in the Matriculation
Examination. But the accused did not pay any heed to the request made by her

grandmother. It is her further version that accused entered into her room,

SPECIAL CASE NO. 12 OF 2016
wanted to tear off her clothes, put his hand in her private part and also touched
her chest and breast. At that time she was wearing a salwar pant. She somehow
pushed the accused and thereafter ran outside the house. Further version of the
victim is that she called the wife of accused and disclosed the incident before
her. When her mother returned back home from the Panchayat office she
narrated the incident before her mother. It is also stated by the victim that when
she narrated the fact to the wife of accused, she in turn alongwith the mother of
accused requested her not to speak the fact before her father. Her mother

lodged ejahar before police.

16). Learned counsel for the accused has argued that victim stated in her
evidence that there was previous enmity with the family of accused, hence she
must have lodged the instant case on being tutored by her parent. It is also
submitted that the mother of the victim namely Smt. Madhabi Saikia [PW-2], Sri
Tipeswar Saikia [PW-3], father of the victim and Sri Badan Saikia were reported

witnesses.

17). The accused during his statement under Section 313 Cr.P.C. had
taken the plea that he had been falsely implicated by the informant for the crime

which he has not committed.

18). It is an admitted fact that the investigating officer of the instant
case has seized birth certificate of the victim from her parents to prove that the
victim is a child/minor less than 18 [eighteen] years as on the date of
commission of offence vide seizure-list [Exhibit-3] but the aforesaid birth
certificate is not available with the record. In the seizure list [Exhibit-3] the I.O.
has written the date of birth of victim as 01/04/2000, but wherefrom the I.O. got
the aforesaid date is not specifically mentioned in his seizure-list. Moreover, if
I.0. had seized any document regarding date of birth of victim the prosecution
ought to have materially exhibited it. But prosecution failed to do so for not any
known reason.

The Medical Officer [PW-6] categorically stated in her evidence that

victim was above 18 years and below 20 years of age at the time of her medico

SPECIAL CASE NO. 12 OF 2016
legal examination. From the above piece of evidence it cannot be held that victim

girl was not major at the time of incident.

19). In the present case, the victim girl [PW-1] has stated that after the
incident she called the wife of accused and disclosed the incident before her. The
same piece of evidence is also tendered by Smt. Madhabi Saikia, the informant-
cum-mother of victim [PW-2]. However, the investigating officer [PW-5] did not
record statement of the grandmother of victim as well as wife of accused to
whom the victim girl narrated the incident immediately was also not examined

for the reasons best known to him.

20). It is a cardinal principle of criminal law that the prosecution has to
prove its case beyond reasonable doubt and that the prosecution case has to

stand on its own leg.

On scrutinizing the evidence on record, considering the entire aspect
of the matter and the evidence, produced by the prosecution, I am of the
considered opinion that the prosecution failed to establish that the accused
committed rape on the victim or committed sexual assault upon her. Hence,

accused is entitled to acquittal under benefit of doubt which I accordingly do.

21). In the result, accused Sri Mridul Bora is acquitted of the charges
under Sections 376/511 IPC read with Section 8 of The Protection of Children
From Sexual Offences Act, 2012, levelled against him on benefit of doubt and he
is set at liberty forthwith.

His bail bond stands discharged.

 

22). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 21*t day of June
2017.
Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:-10

SPECIAL CASE NO. 12 OF 2016
10

ANNEXURES:-
PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

 

 

 

PW-1 Victim girl.

PW-2 Smt. Madhabi Saikia, mother of victim girl-cum-
informant of the case.

PW-3 Sri Tipeswar Saikia, father of the victim.

PW-4 Sri Badan Saikia, neighbour of the victim.

PW-5 Sri Miraj Doley, I.O. of the case.

PW-6 Dr. Amrita Nath, Medical Officer.

 

 

COURT WITNESS:- NIL
EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION:-

Exhibit Statement of the victim under Section 164 Cr.P.C.
PEjahar

 

Exhibit-5 Medico-legal report of victim

Seizurelist,
Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index.

 

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NONE
Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO. 12 OF 2016 1 0
SPECIAL CASE NO. 12 OF 2016

11

11
