1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

POCSO Case No. 19/2018
corresponding to GR Case No. 733/2018 &
Bokajan Police Station Case No. 151/2018
Under Section 376 IPC/ R/W 4 of the
POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Robin Gogoi

Name of informant/complainant:

Shri Horen Gogoi
S/O Late Johan Gogoi
Village: Baghjan, Balipathar
P.S: Bokajan
District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Robin Gogoi
S/O Late Johan Gogoi
Village: Baghjan, Balipathar
P.S: Bokajan
District: Karbi Anglong, Assam.
Advocates appeared:
For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the defence : Mr, Jitu Paul
Date fixed for Argument : 29.05.2019
Judgment pronounced & delivered on: 07.06.2019

UDGMENT
2|Page

It is a case of penetrative sexual assault on the
victim alleged to have been committed by her

maternal uncle.

The prosecution case in brief is that on
15.07.2018 the informant named above lodged a
written ejahar with Bokajan Police Station stating
inter alia that since last three months the accused
person took the victim to his house and raped her
there but she refrained from disclosing the incident
to anybody of his family about the incident. On
14.07.2018 the victim informed him about the
incident after a meeting was held in the village. On
receipt of written ejahar, Bokajan Police Station
registered a criminal case vide Bokajan Police
Station case No. 151/2018 under section 376 IPC
read with section 4 of the POCSO Act and started
investigation. On completion of investigation, the
charge sheet was submitted under section 4 of the
POCSO Act against the accused person. Hence the

prosecution has come up.

On completion of appearance of the present
accused person before the Court, copy was supplied
to the accused person. Having very carefully gone
through submissions of learned lawyers of both
sides as well as case diary | found that there was
ground for presuming that that the accused person
committed the offenses under section 4 of the
POCSO Act and accordingly, the charge was framed.
The particular of the offence charged was duly read
over and explained to the accused person to which
he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.
3|Page

During trial, Prosecution has examined as many
as 8 (eight) witnesses. The accused person has
been under section 313 CrPC. The defence has
examined none. Plea of defense is of total denial.

Points for determination

Whether the accused on or before
15.07.2018 at Balipathar under Bokajan
Police Station or in any other Police Station
made penetrative sexual assault upon the

victim?

Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through verbal
arguments advanced by the learned counsels of
both sides as well as evidence on record.

PW-1 is the father of the victim whose evidence
is silent as to how she was at the time of
occurrence. PW-2 is the victim whose evidence
shows she was 13 years old at the time of
occurrence. PW-3 is the brother of the victim whose
evidence shows that she was 12 years old at the
time occurrence. PW-4 who is the sister in law of
the victim has stated in her evidence that at the
time of occurrence th victim was 12 years.
According to PW-5 and PW-6, the victim was 13
years at the time of occurrence.
4|Page

Ext-3 is medical report. Ext-7 is the medical
officer who examined the victim. According to Ext-3
the victim was below 16 years (14/15 years). PW-8,
the investigating officer has clearly stated in his
evidence that vide Ext-1(A) he seized a school
certificate of the victim marked as M-Ext-1. M-Ext-1
shows that date of birth of the victim is 10-04-2006.
From the discussions made it has become crystal
clear that at the time of occurrence the victim was
16 years. The main ingredient for attracting
section 4 of the POCSO Act, the victim must be a
child which is defined under section 2(d) of the
POCSO Act that a person who is below 18 years is
called a child. Taking all aspects into consideration,
| am convinced that at the time of occurrence the
victim completed 16 years.

The victim is the niece of the accused. Ext-4 is
the sketch map of the PO which shows that the
house of the accused is adjacent to the house of
the informant who is the father of the victim. In
such a case, the evidence of the victim plays vital
role. Ext-5 is the ejahar which shows that the
accused about three months prior to the filing of
Ext-4 took the victim on call and raped her there
but she refrained from disclosing the incident out of
fear. Ext-1 is the statement of the victim recorded
under section 164 of the CrPC wherein the victim
stated that the accused made sexual intercourse
with her thrice and out of them once in the field and
twice in his house. She further stated in Ext-1 that
the accused threaten to kill her by administering
medicine if she would disclose the incident to any
body and that while menstruation circle for three
5|Page

10.

11.

months she disclosed the incident to her sister-in-
law. From the evidence of the victim appears that
the accused made sexual intercourse with her one

time in his house.

According to the victim marked as PW-2, her
cousin sister coming to the house of the accused on
hearing her shouting found her undressed condition
and seeing her, the accused fled away. Her
evidence also shows that she first disclosed about
the incident to his sister-in-law marked as PW-4.
According to PW-4, the victim disclosed to her that
the accused made sexual intercourse with her
thrice and that the accused threatened to kill her if
she would disclose the incident. From history told to
the medical officer by the victim who examined her
it appears that the accused made_ sexual
intercourse with her trice. Ext-3 is the medical
report shows that on examination of the victim her
hymen was found absence.

It is evident that in the village Mel was held. PW-
6 is one of the villagers who was present in the said
Mel. According to him, in the said Mel Gaonbura,
members of VDP and other were present and in the
Mel the victim disclosed that the accused made
sexual intercourse with her. It has been contended
by the learned lawyer appearing on behalf of the
accused that there is long three months
unexplained delay in lodging of the ejahar. It is a
case of a penetrative sexual assault upon a child
who was below 16 years at the time of occurrence
by her own paternal uncle. There is corroborative
6|Page

that the accused threatened to finish her if she
would disclose the incident to anybody else.
Regarding delay what the Hon'ble Apex Court has
observed in the case of State of H.P. v. Sanjay
Kumar reported in “ (2017) 2 SCC 51” is
reproduced below:-

“24. When the matter is examined in the
aforesaid perspective, which in the opinion of this
Court is the right perspective, reluctance on the
part of the prosecutrix in not narrating the incident
to anybody for a period of three years and not
Sharing the same event with her mother, is clearly
understandable. We would like to extract the
following passage from the judgment of this Court
in Tulshidas Kanolkar v. State of Goa _ [Tulshidas
Kanolkar v. State of Goa, (2003) 8 SCC 590: 2004
SCC (Cri) 44]: (SCC p. 592, para 5)-“5. We shall first
deal with the question of delay. The unusual
circumstances satisfactorily explained the delay in
lodging of the first information report. In any event,
delay per se is not a mitigating circumstance for the
accused when accusations of rape are involved.
Delay in lodging the first information report cannot
be used as a ritualistic formula for discarding the
prosecution case and doubting its authenticity. It
only puts the court on guard to search for and
consider if any explanation has been offered for the
delay. Once it is offered, the court is to only see
whether it is satisfactory or not. In case if the
prosecution fails to satisfactorily explain the delay
and there is possibility of embellishment or
exaggeration in the prosecution version on account

of such delay, it is a relevant factor. On the other
7|Page

12.

13.

14.

hand, satisfactory explanation of the delay is
weighty enough to reject the plea of false
implication or vulnerability of the prosecution case.
As the factual scenario shows, the victim was
totally unaware of the catastrophe which had
befallen her. That being so, the mere delay in
lodging of the first information report does not in
any way render the prosecution version brittle.”

It is observed in State of Punjab v. Gurmit
Singh [State of Punjab v. Gurmit Singh, (1996)
2 SCC 384 in respect delay thus:-“8. The courts
cannot overlook the fact that in sexual offences
delay in the lodging of the FIR can be due to variety
of reasons particularly the reluctance of the
prosecutrix or her family members to go to the
police and complain about the incident which
concerns the reputation of the prosecutrix and the
honour of her family. It is only after giving it a cool
thought that a complaint of sexual offence is
generally lodged...”

Considering discussion made above and
observed made in the case laws cited above | find
that explained given by the victim as to why she
refrained from disclosing the incident to anybody
else is natural and acceptable.

It has been further argued by the learned lawyer
appearing on behalf of the accused that non
examination of cousin sister of the victim who found
her in undressed condition in the house of the
accused is fatal to prosecution. He has also
submitted that the evidence of the victim is not
from contraction and doubts. It is the established
8|Page

L5.

16.

principle that the evidence of the victim of sexual
assault case does not need to be corroborated. In
case of a between the relatives, non _ interest
relative witness does not like to come to the dock.

In Jitender Sharma Versus State
(NCT of Delhi) reported in “2019 SCC OnLine Del
8266” regarding evidentiary value of the victim
witness it has been observed thus:-“15. It is
pertinent to observe that, the question whether
conviction of an accused can be based on the sole
testimony of the victim in cases of sexual
assault/rape is no longer res integra. The Hon'ble
Supreme Court has dealt with the issueina
catena of judgments and has held that, the sole
testimony of the prosecutrix if found reliable, can
be the sole ground for convicting the accused; and
that the credit-worthy
testimony of the victim in cases of such nature
deserves acceptance.”

Of course there are some minor contradictions
available in the evidence of the victim but said
contradictions are not material point. Defence has
failed to bring on record that there was an enmity
between the accused and family members of the
informant who is the father of the victim. | find that
the defence has failed to bring any thing as to why
the victim falsely deposed. Considering all aspects |
find no way to disbelieve the evidence of the victim.

ORDER
9|Page

17.

18.

19.

In the result, | find the accused person guilty
under section 4 of the POCSO Act and accordingly
he is convicted.

On the point of sentence, the accused person is
heard and to that effect his statement is recorded.
It has been submitted by the learned lawyer
appearing on behalf of the accused that the
accused deserves to be punished leniently as there
is nothing on record showing he was earlier
convicted by the Court of Law and that he is a man
of 71 years old. He has further submitted that
presence of the accused in his family is highly
required. On the other hand, learned Public
Prosecutor appearing on behalf of the state has
submitted that the accused needs to be punished
exemplary. Taking all aspects into consideration | do
hereby order the accused Sri Robin Gogoi to
undergo RI for 7 (Seven) years and to pay fine of
Rs. 5000/- i/d SI of 6 (Six) months. Let the fine
money be paid to the victim through her informant
father if realized. Set off his earlier detention
periods. Let a certified copy of the Judgment be
supplied to the accused person at free of cost. Leta
copy of the Judgment be sent to the learned District
Magistrate, Diphu, Karbi Anglong in terms of the
section 365 of the CrPC.

Considering financial condition of the informant
who is the father of the victim, | am of the opinion
that the victim needs adequate financial assistance
for her rehabilitation. The compensation awarded
under section 357 of the CrPC to the victim is not
adequate. Hence, | do hereby award Rs. 50,000/- as
10| Page

a compensation under victim compensation scheme
as laid down under section 357 A of the CrPC to be
paid to the victim through her informant father by
the DLSA, Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Let a copy of the
Judgment be sent to the Secretary DLSA, Karbi
Anglong, Diphu for information and necessary
action.

20. Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.

214. Given under my hand and seal of the Court on
this 07" June, 2019 at Diphu, Karbi Anglong.

Dictated and Corrected by me.

(Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS) (Md. A.U.Ahmed,
AJS)
Special Judge Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam Diphu, Karbi
Anglong,

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witnesses:

PW1- Shri Harur Gogoi
PW2- Miss Wanti Gogoi
PW3- Sri Babul Gogoi

PW4- Smti Sapna Gogoi
PW5- Smti Aruna Kerketa
PW6- Smti Bichitra Induwar
PW7- Dr. Jacqueline Teronpi
11|Page

PW8- Shri Joseph Kevom

Defence Witnesses: Nil
Prosecution Exhibited :

Ext.1- Statement of the Victim

Ext.1A- Seizure List

Material Ext.1- School Certificate of the victim.
Ext.3- Medical Report

Ext.4- Ejahar

Ext.5- Sketch Map

Ext.6- Charge Sheet

Defence Exhibited: Nil

Special Judge
Diphu, Karbi Anglong, Assam
