CAUSE TITLE
POCSO Case No. 37/16

Informant: — Sri Ram Bilash Singh,
S/o- Late Ram Pyaree Singh,
R/o- No. 1 Dill Duwania Gaon,
PS- Namrup,
District- Dibrugarh.

Accused: Sri Dnaneswar Mahatoo,
S/o- Late Baluram Mahatoo,
R/o- No. 1 Dill Duwania Gaon,
PS- Namrup,
District- Dibrugarh.

ADVOCATES:-

For the State: Mrs. Runumi Devi, learned Public Prosecutor.
Mrs. Shahnaz Akhtar, learned Addl. Public Prosecutor.

For the Defence: Mr. Uttam Kumar Rough, learned Advocate.
IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE: DIBRUGARH

Present: Smti. SP Khaund, (MA Economics, LLB),

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh.

POCSO Case No. 37/16
G.R. Case No. 264/16

State of Assam
we Vs-

Sri Dnhaneswar Mahatoo

Charges: Under Section 8 of POCSO Act.

Date of evidence on : 19-07-16, 06-06-17, 05-07-17 and 14-12-17.
Date of argument : 09-04-18.
Date of Judgment _: 07-05-18.

1)

2)

3)

JUDGMENT

A brief account of this case is that on 23-01-16, at about 2:00 pm, Sri
Dhaneswar Mahatoo (hereinafter the accused) entered into the victim’s house
when the minor victim was alone at home and asked for a glass of water.
When the victim went to fetch water, the accused held her hand and
attempted to commit rape on her. An FIR regarding this incident was lodged
by the victim’s father Sri Ram Bilash Singh with the police at Namrup Police
Station which was registered as Namrup PS Case No. 15/16 under Sections
376/511 of the Indian Penal Code (IPC in short), read with Section 8 of the
Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (hereinafter POCSO Act
in short).

The investigating officer (IO in short) embarked upon the investigation and
went to the place of occurrence. He prepared the Sketch-Map and recorded
the statements of the witnesses. He seized one School Certificate and on
finding prima facie materials, he submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused
under Sections 376/511 IPC, read with Section 8 of POCSO Act.

On appearance of the accused, copies were furnished. After hearing both the
sides, a formal charge under Section 8 of POCSO Act was framed, read over
and explained to the accused. The accused abjured his guilt and claimed

innocence.
4)

5)

6)

7)

To substantiate the stance, the prosecution adduced the evidence of eight
witnesses including the IO. The accused cross-examined the witnesses to

refute the charges.

I have heard the arguments forwarded by the learned counsel for both the
sides.

POINTS FOR DETERMINATION:
On the backdrop of the rival proponements, the following point is taken up

for proper adjudication of this case:
i. Whether on 23-01-16, the accused committed sexual assault
on the victim X?

DECISION THEREON AND THE REASONS FOR THE DECISION:
The victim X testified as PW-1 that the accused is her neighbour. The incident
took place on 23-01-16 on Saturday. On that day, at about 2:00 pm, she was
alone at home, as her mother died. Her father and her brother both went for
work. At that time, the accused came to her house and asked for a glass of
water. She then went inside and came out with a glass of water. The accused
already entered into the room from the verandah. She offered him the glass
of water and the accused held her by her wrist. She asked the accused as to
why he was holding her hand and then the accused replied that he had
something to discuss. Then she asked him to properly sit and discuss, but the
accused did not let go off her hand and instead, he snatched her mobile
phone and threw it on the ground and broke it. When she tried to wriggle out
of his clasp, she fell on the ground and the accused caught hold of her
sweater from behind while she was getting up. Then the sweeter came out,
as it was a front open sweeter and was not buttoned up at that time. Then
she ran out of her house to her paternal uncle’s house, but no one was in her
uncle’s house. Then she went out of the house and met the accused person’s
son on the street and immediately, she informed the accused person's son.
Then the accused person’s son escorted her into her house. Meanwhile, the
accused already left. Thereafter, the accused person’s son left her and she
remained at home alone till the evening. In the evening, before her father
and brother returned, the accused once again came and apprised her that he
was being playful and he requested her not to inform the incident to
anybody. He also threatened her to cut her and kill her if she narrates the

incident to anybody. Thereafter, the accused left and her father returned from
8)

9)

work. She informed her father about the incident and then her father lodged
an ejahar with the police. She was also forwarded to the Magistrate for
recording her statement. Ext. 1 is her statement and Ext. 1(1) upto Ext. 1(3)
are her signatures. She sustained minor injuries on her hand as the glass of
water which she offered to the accused, fell on the ground when she tried to
escape from the accused person’s clasps.

In her cross-examination, she testified that her paternal uncle’s house is near
her house and at a little distance, there are some more houses. The police
recorded her statement at the police station. She addressed the accused as
‘Dodo’. She has denied the suggestion of the defence that she omitted to
state before the Magistrate that when she offered the glass of water to the
accused, he clasped her wrist and the glass of water fell on the ground. She
also denied the suggestion by the defence regarding her omission to state
before the police and the Magistrate that the accused clasped her sweater
which was front open and unbuttoned. She also denied the suggestion that
she omitted to state before the police that the accused snatched her mobile
and threw it on the ground and broke the same and that the accused
person’s son accompanied her to her house and at that time, the accused
already went away from her house. She also denied the suggestion by the
defence that she omitted to state before the Magistrate that the accused
came to her house and threatened her not to inform anybody else about the
incident, lest he would kill her.

The evidence of PW-1 is supported by the evidence of her father Sri Ram
Bilash Singh who testified as PW-2 that the accused is his neighbour. His
daughter is about 16 years of age. The incident took place on 23-01-16. At
that time, his daughter was alone at home and he went for his work. When
he returned home at about 5:00 pm, his daughter informed him that the
accused came to his house at about 2:00 pm and asked her for a glass of
water. When she offered her a glass of water, the accused caught her and
tried to molest her, but she managed to escape and ran away to her paternal
aunt’s house. On 26-01-16, he got the FIR written by the Gaonburah
according to his narrative. He affixed his signature on the FIR and lodged the
same with the Namrup Police Station. As he was ailing at that time, he could
not lodge the ejahar earlier. Ext. 2 is the FIR and Ext. 2(1) is his signature.

The police recorded his statement and seized the school certificate of his
daughter which was again returned to him. Ext. 3 is the Seizure-List and
Ext. 3(1) is his signature. Ext. 4 is the Zimmanama and Ext. 1(1) is his
signature. His daughter was forwarded to the Court for recording her
statement.

10) The FIR reflects that the complainant was not well and he could not lodge
the FIR immediately after the incident. His evidence supports the evidence of
his daughter. The evidence of PW-1 and PW-2 clearly depicts that on
23-01-16, at about 2:00 pm, when the victim was alone, the accused went
into her house and asked for a glass of water. When the victim offered him
the glass of water, the accused clasped her wrist and attempted to commit
rape on her.

11) The evidence of PW-1 and PW-2 is supported by the evidence of Smt. Arati
Magar who testified as PW-3 that the accused is from her village. The victim
is the complainant's daughter. The incident took place in the month of July, in
the previous year. On the next day of the incident, she heard from the
villagers that there was a quarrel between the accused and the victim.

12) The evidence of PW-1, 2 and 3 is also supported by the evidence of Smti.
Rina Singh who testified as PW-4 that the accused is her neighbour. The
complainant is the victim's father. The incident took place about a year ago.
On the evening of the incident, when she returned from work, she heard
from the villagers that the accused committed rape on the victim.

13)The evidence of PW-1, 2, 3 and 4 is supported and corroborated by the
evidence of PW-5 Sri Dipen Basumatari who testified that the accused is
known to him. The incident took place about 1 % years ago. When he
returned from his duty, his wife informed him that the victim was molested by
the accused in her house. So the accused was arrested by the police.

14) It is pertinent to mention at this juncture that the evidence of PW-3 and 4
remained uncontradicted. However, the evidence of PW-3 remained hearsay,
because he could not remember from whom he heard about the fight
between the accused and the victim. Although PW-5 was cross-examined, his
testimony remained uncontradicted and even after the cross-examination of
the IO.

15) PW-6 Md. Naimuddin Saikh denied any knowledge about the incident.

16)The IO Sri Deepak Sutradhar testified as PW-7 that on 26-01-16, he was
posted at Namrup Police Station as SI. On that day, the Officer-in-charge (OC
in short) received an FIR and registered the same as Namrup PS Case No.
15/16 under Sections 376/511 IPC, read with Section 8 POCSO Act and
endorsed him with the investigation. Ext. 2 is the FIR and Ext. 2(2) is the
signature of Sidananda Bora directing him to conduct the investigation. He
met the informant and the victim in the police station and recorded their
statements. He went to the place of occurrence and prepared the Sketch-Map
and recorded the statements of other witnesses. Ext. 4 is the Sketch-Map and
Ext. 4(1) is his signature. He seized one original school certificate of the
victim vide Ext. 3 wherein Ext. 3(2) is his signature. He retained the xerox
copy of the certificate and handed over the original certificate to the victim's
family. Ext. 4 is the Zimmanama signed by the victim's father taking back the
certificate. On 27-01-16, he arrested the accused and forwarded him to the
jail. He forwarded the victim to the Court for recording her statement under
Section 164 CrPC. He produced the victim before the CWC on 29-01-16.
Meanwhile, he was transferred and he handed over the Case Diary to the OC.

17) SI Srimanta Kumar Bharali testified as PW-8 that on 14-03-16, he joined as
SI at Namrup Police Station and the OC handed over him the Case Diary of
this case. He went through the Case Diary and on finding prima facie
materials, submitted Charge-Sheet against the accused. Ext. 6 is the Charge-
Sheet and Ext. 6(1) is his signature.

18) It is pertinent to mention as this juncture that PW-7 testified in his cross-
examination that PW-1 did not state before him that the accused clasped her
sweater which was front open and unbuttoned and that the accused snatched
her mobile and threw it on the ground and broke the same. It is true that
there is an omission on the part of the victim, but this contradiction can be
safely ignored as a minor contradiction. The statement of the victim under
Section 164 CrPC is consistent and remained uncontradicted. The statement
of the informant also remained uncontradicted. He was cross-examined
extensively by the defence, but his evidence remained uncontradicted and
uncontroverted. It has already been held that the evidence of PW-1 is
corroborated by the evidence of PW-2 and supported by the evidence of
PWs-3, 4 and 5.

19)In view of my foregoing discussions, it is thereby held that the prosecution
could prove beyond reasonable doubt that the accused person is complicit.

However, considering the act committed by the accused, the punishment is
scaled down to Section 12 of the POCSO Act. The accused is not held guilty
of sexual assault on the victim, because there was no overt act of sexual
assault by the accused on the victim. However, considering the fact that he
clasped the victim’s hand and did not let her go, the accused is held guilty of
the offence under Section 11(i) of the POCSO Act for his gesture of clasping
the victim by her wrist.

20)I have heard the accused on the point of sentence. He has prayed that he is
unable to pay the fine and he is innocent.

SENTENCE:

21)The accused Sri Dnhaneswar Mahatoo is convicted under Section 12 of the
POCSO Act and is sentenced to undergo rigorous imprisonment (RI in short)
for 1 Y2 (One and half) years and to pay a fine of Rs. 200/- (Rupees Two
Hundred) only and in default of payment of fine, to undergo RI for 1 (one)
month. The period of detention of the accused during investigation and trial
is set off with his custodial sentence.

22) Furnish free copies of judgment to the accused and to the District Magistrate.

23)Considering the facts of the case, I have not referred this case for
compensation to the victim.
Judgment is signed, sealed and delivered in the open Court on the 7" day of
May, 2018.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh
Certified that the judgment is typed
to my dictation and corrected by me
and each page bears my signature.

Sessions Judge,
Dibrugarh

Contd.
APPENDIX

List of witnesses:

1. PW-1 The victim X;

2. PW-2 Sri Rambilash Singh;

3. PW-3 Smt. Arati Magar;

4. PW-4 Smti. Rina Singh;

5. PW-5 Sri Dipen Basumatari;

6. PW-6 Md. Naimuddin Saikh;

7. PW-7 Sri Deepak Sutradhar; and

8. PW-8 SI Srimanta Kumar Bharali.
List of Exhibits:

1. Ext. 1 Statement of the victim X recorded under Section 164 CrPC;

2. Ext. 2 Ejahar;

3. Ext. 3 Seizure-List;

4. Ext. 4 Sketch-Map;

5. Ext. 5 Simma Nama; and

6. Ext. 6 Charge-Sheet.

List of witnesses and Exhibits for defence- None

Sessions Judge,

Transcribed and typed by:- Dibrugarh
Bhaskar Jyoti Bora, Steno.
