IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE AT JORHAT

Present : Sri Madhurjya Narayan, LL.M., AJS
Special Judge, Jorhat

SPECIAL CASE NO. 26 OF 2018
(G.R. Case No. 1081 of 2018)
Teok P.S. Case No. 148 of 2018

State of Assam

-Versus-

Sri Ranjan Borah,

Son of Late Dimbeswar Borah,

Resident of Jagdowar Natun Habi Gaon,

P.S. Teok,

District-Jorhat. ... Accused

APPEARANCES:
For the State : Sri Muhidhar Dutta, Learned Special P.P., Jorhat
For the Accused: Sri Indrajit Kakaty, Learned Advocate, Jorhat

CHARGE FRAMED UNDER SECTION 354 [A] OF INDIAN PENAL CODE
READ WITH SECTION 12 OF THE POCSO ACT, 2012

 

Date of Charge : 15-06-2018

Date of prosecution evidence : 12-07-2018; 26-07-2018; 26-09-2018;
& 11-12-2018

Statement of Accused

Recorded on : 05-01-2019

Date of Argument : 03-07-2019

Date of Judgment : 17-07-2019

SPECIAL CASE NO. 26 OF 2018
JUDGMENT

1). The prosecution story, in brief, as stated in the ejahar [Exhibit-2] dated
16/04/2018, lodged by Smt. Rupali Mahanta, is that on 15/04/2018, around 4.30
p.m., accused Sri Ranjan Borah showed pornographic videos to her daughter
[hereinafter referred as (X) in order to screen her identity] in his mobile phone,
placed his hand on her chest and asked her to touch his private part by putting
her hand inside his pant. It is further contention of the informant that the victim
[X] disclosed about the incident to her only on the next day, i.e., on 16/04/2018,

around 2.00 p.m. Hence the case.

2). On receipt of the aforesaid F.I.R. by the Officer-in-charge, Teok P.S.,
the same was registered as Teok P.S. Case No. 148/2018 under Section 354 [A]
of IPC read with Section 12 of The Protection of Children From Sexual Offences
Act, 2012, [in short, POCSO Act, 2012] and caused investigation into the same.

2 (1) During the course of investigation, victim’s statement under Section
164 of Cr.P.C. was recorded by the learned Magistrate. Police on completion of
investigation filed charge-sheet in the case against accused Sri Ranjan Borah
under Section 354 [A] of IPC read with Section 12 of The POCSO Act, 2012, vide
Charge-sheet No. 77/2018 dated 30-04-2018.

3). On production, copies of relevant documents, required as per statutory
provision, were furnished to the accused person. Then upon consideration of the
materials on record as well as relevant documents and after hearing the
submissions of the learned counsel for both sides on the point of consideration of
charge, finding ground for presuming that the accused had committed offences
under Section 354 [A] of IPC read with Section 12 of the POCSO Act, 2012, my
learned predecessor-in-office framed formal charge there-under against him.
Accusations of the said charge were read over and explained to the accused, to

which, he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be tried.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 26 OF 2018
4). During the course of trial, 09 [nine] witnesses, including the victim,
her mother-cum-informant of the case, on behalf of the prosecution, were
examined to prove the charges U/S. 354 [A] of IPC read with Section 12 of the
POCSO Act, 2012.

5). Statement of the above named accused was recorded under Section
313 of Cr.P.C. vide order dated 05/01/2019. The accused stated that he had
been falsely implicated in the case and pleaded innocence. The accused declined

to adduce any witness in his defence.

6). I have heard arguments forwarded by Sri Muhidhar Dutta, learned
Special Public Prosecutor for the State as well as Sri Indrajit Kakaty, learned

Defence Counsel for the accused.

6 (i). During argument, learned Special P.P., Jorhat, submitted that the
prosecution established its case against the accused person by adducing credible
evidence beyond reasonable doubt and as such, he be dealt with. On the other
hand, the learned defence counsel Sri Indrajit Kakaty, submitted that the
accused person is totally innocent and he has been falsely implicated. Further,
evidence on record fall short to prove the prosecution case against the accused

person and as such, he be acquitted.

7). Now the points for determination before this Court are as follows:-
Whether on 15/04/2018, around 4.30 p.m., at Jagdowar Natun Habi

Gaon, under Teok P.S., above-named accused person:

i. Showed the victim [X], vulgar/pornographic videos in his mobile
phone, touched her breast and asked her to touch his private
part?

ii. Committed sexual harassment upon the victim [X], who was a

minor girl at that time?

SPECIAL CASE NO. 26 OF 2018
DISCUSSION, DECISIONS AND REASONS THEREOF:

8). Prosecution examined the victim [X] as PW-1. She deposed that at
the time of the incident, she was at her house alongwith her elder brother, elder
sister and her mother, i.e., the informant/PW-2. That on the relevant day,
accused person came to their house around 4.00 p.m., and showed her
pornographic videos by telling her that he would show her music videos of
Zubeen. That she then went inside the room of her grandfather and accused also
followed her and he asked her to put her hands inside his pant. That she
narrated the incident to her mother/PW-2, i.e., the informant, only on the next

day.

8 (i). During cross-examination, PW-1 stated that at the time of the incident,
her elder brother, elder sister, mother, her grandfather and other family
members were present at the house and they were watching television at the
front side of the house. That they have got three rooms in total. That she
alongwith the accused person were waiting at the step and the latter showed her

the pornographic videos outside the house.

9). PW-2/Smt. Rupali Mahanta, is the informant and mother of the
victim/PW-1. She deposed that at the time of the incident, she was at her house,
whereas the victim was at the house of her grandfather, where PW-1 used to
reside since her childhood, which is situated about 2/3 houses away from her
house. That on the day of the incident, PW-2 saw the accused person and his
family members going to the house where the victim was residing. That seeing
her daughter playing, PW-2 asked her to go inside the house. That on the next
day of the incident, the victim went to her house and told that when she, i.e., the
victim, had asked the accused person for his mobile phone to see videos of
Zubeen, he instead showed her pornographic videos. That the victim further told
that when she entered into the room of her grandfather, accused person

followed her and asked her to put her hand inside his pant.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 26 OF 2018
9 (i). During cross-examination, PW-2 stated that when the victim asked for
the mobile phone from the accused person, at that time his wife was sitting

inside the room.

10). PW-3/Smt. Krishna Mahanta is the aunt of the victim, latter being
the daughter of her husband's elder sister. That on the next day of the incident,
in the month of Bohag, PW-3 came to know from the victim/PW-1 about the

incident and she was with her mother.

10 (i). | During cross-examination, PW-3 stated that she cannot say the exact

date, time and place of the incident.

11). PW-4/Smt. Charu Mahanta is the grandmother of the victim. She
deposed that on the next day of the incident, victim/PW-1 informed her that on
the previous day, the accused person came to their house and put his hand on
the chest of the victim and also opened the zipper of his pant and showed her

obscene videos in his mobile phone.

11 (i). During cross-examination, PW-4 stated that the victim narrated the
incident, first to them as her mother/PW-2 had gone for work. That the
victim/PW-1 was staying at the house of the grandfather alongwith Sri Atul
Mahanta and his wife and Sri Atul Das. That Smt. Putoli Mahanta and mother of

the victim, came to know about the incident from PW-4.

12). It is seen from the evidence of PW-3/Smt. Krishna Mahanta that she
came to know about the incident from the victim on the next day and according
to PW-4, the victim first narrated the incident to her on the next day, around
10.00 a.m. and mother of the victim, i.e., PW-2, came to know about the incident
only from her. However, the victim as PW-1 deposed that she did not narrate the
incident to anybody except her mother. PW-2 in the ejahar as well as during her
testimony before the court stated that she came to know about the incident from
the victim only on the next day of the incident, but did not depose that she came
to know about it from PW-4.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 26 OF 2018
13). PW-6/Smt. Putoli Mahanta deposed that the victim is her related
granddaughter. That on the day of the incident on 16/04/2018, accused person
and his wife visited her house at about 3.30 p.m. and they all had tea. That at
that time, the victim was playing and the accused person and his wife left their
house. That on the next day, the victim went to her mother’s house, which is at
a little distance away from her residence. That on that day, while PW-6 was at
her house, seeing the accused person going somewhere, on query by her, he
told that he was going to the house of the victim. That she found a gathering

and she does not know anything about the incident.

13 (i). During cross-examination, PW-6 stated that the victim was staying at
their house at the time of the incident and still staying at their house and the

victim did not state anything to her.

14). PW-7/Sri Atul Das is the husband of PW-6/Smt. Putoli Mahanta. He
deposed that the victim stays at his house and incident occurred on 16/04/2018.
That the accused person came with his wife and had Bihu feast and tea together.
That at that time, the victim was playing in the courtyard. That the accused
person played Bihu songs in his mobile phone and the victim and other girls were
dancing. That at that time when he was watching television, the victim came to

him playing with a mobile phone.

14 (i). During cross-examination, PW-7 stated that he does not know

anything about the incident and the victim did not state anything to him.

15). PW-8/Sri Manoj Sadhanidhar deposed that on the day of the
incident, seeing a gathering outside the house of the victim, he called police.
That he had met the victim on the date of the incident and she told that the
accused person had uttered slang words and shown her obscene videos in his

mobile phone. He, however, does not know anything about the incident.

SPECIAL CASE NO. 26 OF 2018
15 (i). During cross-examination, PW-8 stated that before he could call
police, some other people informed the police. He also stated that he does not

know the exact date of the incident.

16). From the evidence of PW-8, it is seen that the victim had told him that
the accused person uttered slang words and showed her obscene videos in his
mobile phone. However, the victim as PW-1, did not depose that she narrated
the incident to PW-8. As such, evidence of PW-8 on the incident is hearsay and

hence, inadmisslible.

17). PW-5/Smt. Beauty Bordoloi Borah is the wife of accused person.
She deposed that incident took place during Bohag Bihu. That she and her
husband on being invited by Smt. Putoli Mahanta/PW-6, went to her house
around 4.00 p.m. That when they reached there, at that time Smt. Putoli
Mahanta was not present, but her husband/PW-7 was there and the former came
after sometime. When they were having tea, the victim girl came with her
younger sister and brother. Also at that time, one Sri Debojit Bharali and other
people went there. That after staying for sometime, they left the place. That on
the next day, police came and seized one mobile phone from PW-5 by Exhibit-3

[seizure-list].

17 (i). During cross-examination, PW-5 stated that about 7/8 persons
gathered at the house of Smt. Putoli Mahanta/PW-6 when they went there. That
they have got enmity with the family of the victim. That the Material Exhibit-1,

i.e., the seized mobile phone, belonged to her husband, i.e., the accused.

18). Now, as per the ejahar [Exhibit-2], incident had taken place on
15/04/2018 around 4.30 p.m. and on the next day, i.e., 16/04/2018, it was
lodged when the incident was reported to PW-2, at around 2.00 p.m. by the
victim. The informant as PW-2 also reiterated the said facts. During cross-
examination, PW-2 stated that they called the accused person after coming to
know about the incident. PW-6 also deposed that on the next day of the incident,

she had seen the accused person proceeding somewhere and on query by her,

SPECIAL CASE NO. 26 OF 2018
the accused told that he was going to the house of the victim/PW-1. The I.O. Sri
Satyajit Borah as PW-9 deposed that on 16/04/2018, as Officer-in-charge, Teok
P.S., he received the ejahar [Exhibit-2]. That prior to that on the same day,
around 4.30 p.m., they were informed over phone that public had detained one
person, who was found sexually abusing a child. That he alongwith staff then

went to the place and took the person in their custody.

19). From the above discussion, it is seen that after the victim reported the
incident to her mother/PW-2 on the next day, accused person was called to the
house of the informant/PW-2 and he was detained by public. Police then took
him in their custody from the house of the informant. PW-8/Sri Manoj
Sadhanidhar also deposed that he found a gathering outside the house of the
victim/PW-1. Prosecution, however, failed to examine any such persons who had
detained the accused person at the house of PW-2, from whom it could have
been ascertained as to why the accused person was detained. Moreover, PW-2
did not depose that the accused person had been detained at her house prior to
the lodging of the ejahar [Exhibit-2], which itself creates a doubt. As per the
prosecution case, the accused person showed pornographic videos to the victim
in his mobile phone. But, the I.O. as PW-9, during cross-examination, stated that
he could not take out the print of the videos as it had been deleted. That he did
not send the mobile phone to FSL, Guwahati, for recovering the stored data, and

thus it is a serious lapse on the part of the prosecution.

20). With regard to the place of occurrence, the victim as PW-1 deposed
that at the time of the incident, she was at her house and that her elder brother,
elder sister and mother/PW-2, her grandfather and other family members were
present at the house. However, as per the evidence of PW-2, incident had taken
place at the house of the grandfather of the victim, where she used to reside
since her childhood days. PW-2 also deposed that at the time of the incident, she
was at her house, which is about 2/3 houses away from the house of the
grandfather of the victim. Moreover, as per the deposition of victim as PW-1, the
accused person showed her pornographic videos outside the house and then

followed her inside the room of her grandfather. Under the circumstances, the

SPECIAL CASE NO. 26 OF 2018
Sketch Map [Exhibit-4] should have clearly depicted the place where the incident
had taken place. But the I.0. as PW-9 during cross-examination, stated that he
has not given the details of the rooms and where the incident had taken place,
which is also a serious loophole on the part of the prosecution. Moreover, as per
the Sketch Map [Exhibit-4], place of occurrence is not the house of PW-6, which

is not in conformity with the prosecution case.

21). Learned counsel for the accused person submitted that due to
previous enmity, the instant case has been lodged against the accused person
out of grudge. The accused person in his examination under Section 313 of
Cr.P.C., stated that father of the victim was his driver, who had caused an
accident to his vehicle and for repairing the same, he had to spent Rs. 18,000/-
[Rupees Eighteen Thousand], out of which he asked the father of the victim to
pay at-least Rs. 9,000/- [Rupees Nine Thousand], but instead of paying the
amount, he lodged the instant case through his wife/PW-2. That he entered into
quarrel with him when he demanded the money. Now PW-1, i.e., the victim,
during cross-examination stated that they do not have good terms with the
accused person. That her father did not work for the accused person. However,
PW-8/Sri Manoj Sadhanidhar, during cross-examination, stated that the father of

the victim was an employee of the accused.

22). PW-2, i.e., the informant, during cross-examination stated that they
entered into a compromise with the accused after one month of the incident.
That she and her husband and one Sri Munukon Borah, Government Gaonburha,
brother and wife of the accused person were present at the time of the
compromise. That the agreement was executed at the house of the brother of
her father-in-law. However, PW-2 in her examination-in-chief, remained silent
about such compromise entered in between them. From her cross-examination
also, it cannot be ascertained over which matter, there was the compromise. Sri
Manoj Sadhanidhar/PW-8 during cross-examination stated that prior to the
incident, accused person lodged a case against the family members of the victim
and to settle that case, he also went to the house of the accused person. The

evidence of PW-8 accordingly points to the conclusion that the compromise

SPECIAL CASE NO. 26 OF 2018
10

entered into was not in connection with the incident. The I.0./PW-9 also did not
depose anything with regard to the said compromise. Moreover, prosecution
failed to examine the husband of the informant, one Sri Munukon Bora and the
Government Gaonburha, who as claimed by PW-2, were present at the time of
the compromise. Failure on the part of the prosecution to examine these
witnesses is a loophole on its part and it raises a presumption under Section 114
(g) of Indian Evidence Act, 1872, “that evidence which could be and is not

produced would, if produced, be unfavourable to the person who withholds it’.

23). Although prosecution may not be required to prove its case beyond
reasonable doubt in cases under POCSO Act, 2012, but the commission of
offence has to be proved by the prosecution in such a way as a reasonable
person would believe it to happen, before shifting the burden to the accused
person. In the case in hand, prosecution by its evidence even failed to raise a
reasonable probability of the offence being committed, so as to shift the onus to

the accused person.

24). In the light of the discussions so made hereinbefore, it is held that
the prosecution failed to prove its case against the accused person beyond
reasonable doubt and as such the accused deserves the benefit of doubt.
Accordingly, accused person namely Sri Ranjan Borah is entitled to acquittal on
benefit of doubt and be set at liberty forthwith.

25). Bail bond of the accused person shall remain in force for a period of

06 [six] months as per provision of Section 437-A Cr.P.C.

26). Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 17th day of July
2019.
Special Judge, Jorhat

Continued to Page No:-11

SPECIAL CASE NO. 26 OF 2018

10
11

ANNEXURES:-

PROSECUTION WITNESSES:-

 

 

 

 

 

 

PW-1 Victim of the case.

PW-2 Smt. Rupali Mahanta, mother-cum-informant of the
case.

PW-3 Smt. Krishna Mahanta, housewife.

PW-4 Smt. Charu Mahanta, grandmother of victim.

PW-5 Smt. Beauty Bordoloi Borah, wife of accused Sri
Ranjan Borah.

PW-6 Smt. Putoli Mahanta, related grandmother of
victim.

PW-7 Sri Atul Das, grandfather of victim.

PW-8 Sri Manoj Sadhanidhar, Government Gaonburha.

PW-9 Sri Satyajit Borah, I.0. of the case.

COURT WITNESS:- NIL

EXHIBITS FOR THE PROSECUTION :-

 

 

 

 

 

 

Exhibit-1 Statement of the victim/PW-1 under Section 164
Cr.P.C.

Exhibit-2 Ejahar

Exhibit-3 Seizure-list

Exhibit-4 Sketch Map of the place of occurrence with index.

Exhibit-5 Charge-sheet.

 

MATERIAL EXHIBIT:- Mobile Phone

DEFENCE WITNESSES:- NIL

Special Judge, Jorhat.

Typed & transcribed by:

Sri Mrinal Jyoti Bora,

(Stenographer Grade-I)

SPECIAL CASE NO.

26 OF 2018 1 1
SPECIAL CASE NO. 26 OF 2018

12

12
