1 eCourtIS copy

IN THE COURT OF ADDL SPECIAL JUDGE ::KOKRAJHAR

Present :- Sri C. Chaturvedy,

SPECIAL CASE NO.25/2017
U/S.366 IPC, R/W Sec.4/17 of POCSO Act

STATE OF ASSAM
Vs

1.Md. Ayjal Sheikh

S/O Sobed Ali

village- Fakiragram Puran
Bazar P.S.Fakiragram
Dist. Kokrajhar

2. Md. Motleb Ali
S/O. Md. Noskar Ali
Village- Dhendhema
P.S. Sapatgram
District- Dhubri

beeeees Accused
Appearance: -
Learned Counsel for the State Mr. Manjit Ghosh, Special P.P
Learned Counsel for the defence Mr. S. Pahariya
Charge framed on 29.11.2018
Evidence recorded on 21.12.2018; 20.01.2019;

16.02.2019; 08.03.2019;
22.04.2019, 24.06.2019

Arguments heard on 09.09.2019
Judgment pronounced on 20.09.2019
2 eCourtIS copy

UDGMENT

i: The case of the prosecution is that on 05.09.2017, xxx, mother of
the victim, lodged a written FIR with the In-charge of Rupshi Police Out
Post alleging that on 4.9.2017 the victim left the residence at 11 AM but
since she did not return till evening an inquiry was made and it was

found that the accused Ayjal Sk has abducted the victim.

2. The FIR was forwarded to Kazigaon Police Station and a case

under Section 363/366 IPC was registered and investigated.

a Upon completion of investigation, a charge sheet was laid for
commission of offence U/S 4 of POCSO Act (Protection of Children from
Sexual Offences Act, 2012) against the 2 accused persons. The case

was later transferred to this Court for disposal.

4. The accused were summoned and on their appearance, copies of
the relevant documents were furnished to them. After hearing both the
sides, charges under Section 366 IPC read with Section 4 /17 of the
POCSO Act were framed against the accused persons to which they

pleaded not guilty and claimed trial.

5. In the course of trial, prosecution examined 9 witnesses. At the
closure of prosecution evidence, the accused person were examined
under Section 313 of the Cr.P.C. The defence plea is of total denial and

the accused declined to adduce any evidence.
POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :-

(i) Whether accused Ayzal kidnapped the victim, a minor girl, for

the purpose of commiting sexual intercourse?

(ii) Whether accused Ayzal committed sexual intercourse with the

victim?
3 eCourtIS copy
(iii) Whether accused Motleb abetted in the commission of

offences by accused Ayzal?
DECISION AND REASONS:
SUMMARY OF EVIDENCE: -

6. Pw 1 xxx, is the victim. She deposed that she knows the accused
Ayjal Hoque. She narrated that accused Ayzal called her on her mobile
phone and informed that Kamal Mahato, her brother, who lives in
Gauripur, has called her to Gauripur hence, she was required to go to
Gauripur. Pw 1, thereafter, came to Gauripur bus stand where the
accused Ayzal was found in the bus stand. From Gauripur, the accused
Ayzal took her to Bagribari. He thereafter took her to Golakganj at the
residence of pw 1’s paternal Aunt. Pw 1 deposed that she stayed in the
residence of her paternal Aunt for one night. Accused also stayed in the
same residence but in a different room. Thereafter, the accused took her
to Fakiragram at his own residence. At Fakiragram, accused Ayzal kept
her in the residence of his elder sister where the accused committed
sexual intercourse with her. Thereafter, police personnel brought them
to Kokrajhar police station and from Kokrajhar Police Station they were
taken to Rupshi police out-post. At Rupshi police out-post, a
policewoman beat her up and also beat up the accused Ayzal. Pw 1 also
deposed that her statement was also recorded under Section 164 CrPC.

Ext 1 is the statement under Section 164 CrPC.

7. In her cross examination, pw 1 deposed that there was a
contruction work going on in the hospital for the last six months.
Accused Ayzal was working as Mason in the hospital and that she came

to know Ayzal at the hospital. Pw 1 admitted that accused Ayzal used to
4 eCourtIS copy
call her on her mobile phone and that she had not disclosed to anyone
that she used to talk to Ayzal. Pw 1 admitted that she did not state in
her statement under Section 161 CrPC that accused Ayzal committed
sexual intercourse with her. She also admitted that at her paternal
Aunt’s house, she identified accused Ayzal as her maternal cousin
brother. Pw 1 also admitted that one lady police told her to give a
statement in the Court that accused Ayzal committed sexual intercourse
with her. Pw 1 also admitted that she did not state before the Magistrate
under Section 164 CrPC that accused committed sexual intercourse with

her at the residence of his elder sister at Fakiragram.

8. Pw 2 xxx, is the mother of the victim. She deposed that accused
Ayzal kidnapped her daughter xxx. Accused had called her daughter to
Gauripur informing that her brother has called her to Gauripur. In the
evening hours when her daughter did not return home, she inquired
about her whereabouts and came to know that accused Ayzal had
kidnapped her daughter. In this regard, she lodged an FIR at Rupshi out-
post. After two days, her daughter was recovered. Pw 2 also deposed
that her daughter informed her that accused committed sexual

intercourse with her.

9. In cross-examination, pw 2 deposed that she lodged the FIR on
the day when her daughter went missing. She admitted that she did not
inform the police that accused Ayzal called her daughter to Gauripur
informing that her brother has called her to Gauripur. Pw 2 denied the
suggestion that her daughter did not inform that accused Ayzal

committed sexual intercourse with her.

10. Pw 3 Kamal Mahato is the brother of xxx, the victim. He deposed

that on the day of occurrence he had gone to Siliguri in connection with
3 eCourtIS copy
his works. In the evening hours, he received an information that his
younger sister is missing. He returned to Gauripur and started searching
for his sister in various places. On the following day, he informed the

Rupshi police about the matter. Later, his sister was recovered by Police.

11. In cross-examination, pw 3 deposed that he had gone to Siliguri
one day prior to the date when his sister went missing. Pw 3 admitted
that his mother knew that he has gone to Siliguri. Pw 3 deposed that his

sister also knew that he has gone to Siliguri.

12. PW4 Sri Dulal Mahato deposed that he came to know that Soma
Mahato has eloped with a boy. He does not know anything else about

the case.

13. PW5 Sri Subhash Sha deposed that the mother of the victim
approached him and informed that her daughter is missing. After
conducting inquires from the relative they could not find the victim.
Thereafter, the mother of the victim lodged an FIR at Rupsi police Out
Post. On the following day, police brought the victim and the accused

Ayjal Hoque at Rupsi Police Out Post.

14. In cross examination, PW5 deposed that he personally does not

know where had the victim had gone along-with the accused.

15. PW6, Sri Nikhil Mahato deposed that about one year back the
mother of the victim approached him and informed that her daughter is
missing. He advised her to lodge an FIR with the Rupshi Police Out Post
and accordingly she lodged an FIR with the Rupshi Police Out Post. On
the following day, police informed them that the victim girl and the boy,

who took her, had been found. He along-with others went to the place
6 eCourtIS copy

Rupshi Police Out Post and saw the victim girl and the accused present

today (the witness pointed towards Ayjal Hoque).

16. PW/7, Md. Sabed Ali deposed that he does not know the informant
of this case. Accused Ayjal is his son. Accused Motleb is his son-in-law.
He only knows that his son Ayjal and one girl eloped together but he
does not know the name of the girl. He only know that the girl is from

Rupsi.

17. PW8 Dr. Sushma Brahma deposed that she had examined the

victim and her findings were as follows :

Vaginal Canal not easily admits two fingers.

Hymen ruptured.

Presence of injuries :- Abrasion seen on posterior vaginal
wall.

Injury :- Multiple bruise seen left thigh.

Colour :- Radish blue.

Age of injury :- 12 to 36 hours.

Spermatozoa test :- No spermatozoa seen.

Opinion :-

After all clinical examination, vaginal smear and ossification
test, the following points are noted.

The age of the girl is 16 years old but below 18 years.
Mark of injury found on her body and private parts.

She has been exposed to sexual intercourse within 36

hours.
18. In cross examination, PW8 deposed that she had not recorded the
case history in Exhibit-2. She admitted that she had not found trace of
semen on her examination. She deposed that the multiple bruise on the

left thigh can also occur if a person is physically tortured.

19. PW9 Sri Ganesh Sarkar deposed that on 4.9.2017 he was posted

as In-charge at Rupshi Police Out Post. The mother of the victim orally
7 eCourtIS copy
informed that her daughter, xxx, had gone to Gauripur to visit her elder
brother but she is missing and now she has learnt that her daughter has
left with Ayjal Hoque of Puranbazar Fakiragram. This information was
recorded vide G D Entry No.59 dated 4.9.2017. On receipt of this
information, pw 9 went to Fakiragram at the residence of accused but
did not find him. The father of accused told him that accused Ayjal
Hoque might have gone to Goalpara at the residence of his elder sister.
On the following day, he along-with the father of accused, went to
Goalpara but the house of sister of accused was locked. While returning
from Goalpara, pw 9 received a call from S.P. Kokrajhar, informing that
accused is presently returning towards Fakiragram. Pw 9 then came to
Fakiragram and found the accused and the victim at the residence of
Motleb Ali, the brother-in-law of the accused. On 5.9.2017, Gauri Mahato
lodged a written FIR. Exhibit-3 is the FIR received from Gauri Mahato. Pw
9 also deposed that he had also seized the School Leaving Certificate of

the victim. Material Exhibit-1 is the School leaving certificate.

20. In cross examination, PW 9 deposed that he had not examined the
Head master of JM Girls Institution which issued Material Exhibit-1. He
also deposed that he has not seized the counter foil and Admission
register of Material Exhibit-1. He admitted that in Material Exhibit-1
there is erasing marked against “SL Number”. Pw 9 further deposed that
he had not examined whether Material Exhibit-l1 is an authentic
document or not. Pw 9 admitted that the investigation started on the
basis of G D Entry No. 59 dated 4.9.2017. He had examined the
complainant and some other witnesses on the basis of GD Entry. He
deposed that has not submitted extract copy of general diary entry on

the basis of which he started the investigation of this case. The FIR on
8 eCourtIS copy
5.9.2017 was the 2nd FIR. PW9 denied the suggestion that he had

deposed falsely.
DECISION ON POINT No. (i) WITH REASONS: -

21. Learned defence Counsel argued that the evidence on record
establishes that the victim went with the accused on her own accord
without any force or coercion by the accused. It has been further argued
by the learned defence Counsel that there is no concrete proof that the
victim was minor at the time of occurrence of alleged offence and that
the evidence on the point of age of victim is not reliable. Thus, it is
argued by the learned defence Counsel that the no case has been made
against the accused Ayzal Hoque since the victim was apparently a

major lady and that she went with the accused according to her free will.

22. Though with respect to the age of the victim some arguments
have been made but such a plea was not taken during the cross
examination of the material witnesses such as pw 1 and pw 2, the victim
and her mother, respectively. The victim stated her age to be 18 years
at the time of evidence, tendered in the year 2019, which would mean
that in the year 2017 she was definitely less than 18 years of age. The
learned defence Counsel has argued that M.Ext 1 is not an authentic
document and its veracity has not been investigated into. However,
M.Ext 1 is only a corroborative evidence to suggest that the victim had
not attained 18 years of age at the time of occurrence. M.Ext 1 was
issued in the year 2015, about 2 years prior to the occurrence. It
appears that the plea as to consenting age of the victim was taken at
the belated stage of trial and such a plea has not been probabilised by
the defence. It is, therefore, held that the victim had not attained the

age of consent at the time of occurrence of alleged offence.
9 eCourtIS copy
23. The other arguments of the learned defence Counsel is that victim
consented to her movement with the accused Ayzal Hoque hence the

accused cannot be blamed for the elopement of the victim.

24. In State of Haryana v. Rajaram, (1973) 1 SCC 544, the
Hon’ble Supreme Court considered the scope of Section 361 IPC and
held that the object of this section seems as much to protect the minor
children from being seduced for improper purpose as to protect the
rights and privileges to guardians having the lawful charge or custody of
their minor wards. The gravamen of this offence lies in the taking or
enticing of a minor under the ages specified in this section, out of the
keeping of the lawful guardian without the consent of such guardian. The
words ‘takes or entices any minor ... out of the keeping of the lawful
guardian of such minor’ in Section 361, are significant. The use of the
word ‘keeping’ in the context connotes the idea of charge, protection,
maintenance and control: further the guardian's charge and control
appears to be compatible with the independence of action and
movement in the minor, the guardian's protection and control of the
minor being available, whenever necessity arises. On plain reading of
this section the consent of the minor who is taken or enticed is wholly
immaterial: it is only the guardian's consent which takes the case out of
its purview. Nor is it necessary that the taking or enticing must be shown
to have been by means of force or fraud, persuasion by the accused
person which creates willingness on the part of the minor to be taken
out of the keeping of the lawful guardian would be sufficient to attract
the section.

25. In Rajaram (supra), the Hon’ble Supreme Court also approved the

ratio of certain English decisions in which it has been stated that
10 eCourtIS copy
forwardness on the part of the girl would not avail the person taking her
away from being guilty of the offence in question and that if by moral
force, a willingness is created in the girl to go away with the former, the
offence would be committed unless her going away is entirely voluntary.
26. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in Rajaram (supra), held that the
principles of English law same seems to be the position under Indian law.
The expression used in Section 361 IPC is “whoever takes or entices any
minor”. The word “takes” does not necessarily connote taking by force
and it is not confined only to use of force, actual or constructive. This
word merely means, “to cause to go”, “to escort” or “to get into
possession”. No doubt it does mean physical taking, but not necessarily
by use of force or fraud. The word “entice” seems to involve the idea of
inducement or allurement by giving rise to hope or desire in the other.
This can take many forms, difficult to visualise and describe
exhaustively; some of them may be quite subtle, depending for their
success on the mental state of the person at the time when the
inducement is intended to operate. This may work immediately or it may
create continuous and gradual but imperceptible impression culminating
after some time, in achieving its ultimate purposes of successful
inducement. The two words “takes” and “entices”, as used in Section
361 IPC are in our opinion, intended to be read together so that each
takes to some extent its colour and content from the other. The statutory
language suggests that if the minor leaves her parental home
completely uninfluenced by any promise, offer or inducement emanating
from the guilty party, then the latter cannot be considered to have
committed the offence as defined in Section 361 IPC. But if the guilty

party has laid a foundation by inducement, allurement or threat, etc.
11 eCourtIS copy
and if this can be considered to have influenced the minor or weighed
with her in leaving her guardian's custody or keeping and going to the
guilty party, then prima facie it would be difficult for him to plead
innocence on the ground that the minor had voluntarily come to him. If
he had at an earlier stage solicited or induced her in any manner to
leave her father's protection, by conveying or indicating or encouraging
suggestion that he would give her shelter, then the mere circumstance
that his act was not the immediate cause of her leaving her parental
home or guardian's custody would constitute no valid defence and would
not absolve him. The question truly falls for determination on the facts

and circumstances of each case.

27. Inthe present case, since the learned Counsel for the defence has
argued that it was the voluntary act of the victim that she went with the
accused, | have examined the evidence of victim and it is found that the
fact that accused Ayzal took her to various places is not in dispute. Thus,
even if the original flight of the victim from her home to Gauripur may
not constitute enticement but the taking away of the victim to various
place does attract the basic ingredients of the offence of kidnapping.
Now, intention as envisaged under Section 366 IPC can be gathered
from the circumstances. Accused Ayzal initially took the victim to
Bogribari and from there to Golakganj. From Golakganj, the accused took
the victim to his elder sister’s house and stayed there at night. The
planning of going to various places may be random but the intention is
apparent that the accused wanted to have sexual relationship with the
victim. In these circumstances, the offence of Section 366 IPC is clearly

made out and the accused Ayzal is found to be guilty thereto.

The point No. (i) is decided in affirmative.
12 eCourtIS copy

DECISION ON POINT No. (ii) WITH REASONS: -

28. The learned defence Counsel vehemently argued that the
allegation of sexual intercourse is an afterthought and the evidence of
the pw 1 clearly reveals that she was beaten up by the police personnel

to depose that accused Ayzal has committed sexual intercourse with her.

29. So far as the charge under Section 4 of the POCSO Act is
concerned, it may be pointed that Section 29 of the POCSO Act provides
that where a person is prosecuted for committing or abetting or
attempting to commit any offence under Sections 3, 5, 7 and Section 9
of this Act, the Special Court shall presume, that such person has
committed or abetted or attempted to commit the offence, as the case
may be unless the contrary is proved.

30. Along-side, Section 29 is the provision of Section 30 of the Act
which provides for reverse burden enabling the Court to presume the
existence of culpable mental state.

31. In Noor Aga v. State of Punjab, (2008) 16 SCC 417 it was
held by the Hon’ble Supreme Court that the provision for reverse burden
is not only provided for under the special Acts but also under the general
statutes like the Penal Code. The Evidence Act provides for such a
burden on an accused in certain matters, as, for example, under
Sections 113-A and 113-B thereof. It further held that enforcement of
law, on the one hand, and protection of citizen from operation of
injustice in the hands of the law enforcement machinery, on the other,
is, thus, required to be balanced. The constitutionality of a penal
provision placing burden of proof on an accused, thus, must be tested on
the anvil of the State's responsibility to protect innocent citizens. The

court must assess the importance of the right being limited to our
13 eCourtIS copy
society and this must be weighed against the purpose of the limitation.
The purpose of the limitation is the reason for the law or conduct which
limits the right.

32. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in Noor Aga (supra), added that
presumption would operate in the trial of the accused only in the event
the circumstances contained therein are fully satisfied. An initial burden
exists upon the prosecution and only when it stands satisfied, would the
legal burden shift. Even then, the standard of proof required for the
accused to prove his innocence is not as high as that of the prosecution.
Whereas the standard of proof required to prove the guilt of the accused
on the prosecution is “beyond all reasonable doubt” but it is

“oreponderance of probability” on the accused.

33. It may be mentioned that pw 1 in her statement under Section
161 CrPC did not state anything about sexual intercourse but in her
statement under Section 164 CrPC she has clearly mentioned that she
had sexual intercourse with the accused Ayzal. Pw 1 also deposed in her
evidence during trial that accused Ayzal committed sexual intercourse
with her at Fakiragram. | have also through the medical evidence in this
regard. Pw 8, the Medical Officer, in her deposition stated that she found
mark of injury on her body and private parts. Pw 8 also opined that the

victim has been exposed to sexual intercourse within 36 hours.

34. Ideally, an omission to state a material fact in the statement
under Section 161 CrPC can be treated as contradiction but in the
present case the victim is a child. The statement under Section 161 CrPC
was given immediately after her production in the police station. As her
evidence reveals, she was subjected to humiliation for eloping with a

boy and bringing disrepute. She was also beaten up by a lady police
14 eCourtIS copy
constable. Thus, in such traumatic circumstances, her statement under
Section 161 CrPC cannot be treated as substratum of her case rather;
her statement in the Court has to be taken on its face value in view of

the provisions of Section 29 of the Act.

35. A reading of the evidence of pw 1 would clearly show that she had
sexual intercourse with the accused though, it may also be added that
pw 1 has deposed in a tenor which indicates that she did not resist the

sexual intercourse with the accused.

36. Now, the cross-examination has not been able to impeach the
testimony of pw 1 that willingly or unwillingly, accused did have sexual
intercourse with the victim. The essence of offence under Section 3,
punishable under Section 4 of the POCSO Act, does not lie in non-
consensual acts, but sexual intercourse with a child, be it with consent

or without consent. Section 3 of the POCSO Act is reproduced below;

3. Penetrative sexual assault.—A person is said to commit
“penetrative sexual assault” if—

(a) he penetrates his penis, to any extent, into the
vagina, mouth, urethra or anus of a child or makes the
child to do so with him or any other person; or

(b) he inserts, to any extent, any object or a part of the
body, not being the penis, into the vagina, the urethra or
anus of the child or makes the child to do so with him or
any other person; or

(c) he manipulates any part of the body of the child so
as to cause penetration into the vagina, urethra, anus or
any part of body of the child or makes the child to do so
with him or any other person; or

(d) he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus,
urethra of the child or makes the child to do so to such
person or any other person.
15 eCourtIS copy
37. Thus, in view of Section 3 of the POCSO, if sexual intercourse is
established it would be entirely the onus of the accused to probabilise,
by convincing evidence, that he never had any sexual intercourse with
the victim which, in the present case, accused Ayzal has been unable to

probabilise.

38. In view of the above, accused Ayzal is found guilty of the offence
under Section 4 of the POCSO Act and the point No. (ii) is decided in

affirmative.
DECISION ON POINT No. tii WITH REASONS: -

39. The summary of evidence reproduced above would show that no
evidence has been tendered against accused Motleb to suggest that he
aided or abetted the commission of offences by accused Ayzal Hoque.
The only reason that he was arraigned is because accused Ayzal was
found in his residence. This alone will not constitute abetment unless
there is evidence to show that he concealed accused Ayzal and the
victim and facilitated the kidnapping of the victim. There being no
evidence to suggest the role played by accused Motleb, he cannot be

held guilty with the aid of Section 17 of the POCSO Act.
The point No. (iii) is decided in negative
HEARING ON THE POINT OF SENTENCE: -

40. | have heard accused Ayzal Hoque on the point of sentence and
he submitted that he hails from a poor family and his prolonged

detention in custody will ruin his family. He, thus, prays for leniency.

41. The evidence on record reveals that the movement of the victim
with the accused Ayzal and her subsequent submission to physical

relationship was with her consent. The consent is irrelevant so far as the
16 eCourtIS copy
culpability is concerned but, | believe, it is a relevant circumstance which
may be taken into account while sentencing the accused. | believe the
facts of the present case does not call for harsher punishment and
rather rigorous imprisonment for 3 years for the offence under Section
366 IPC and rigorous imprisonment for 7 years for the offence under
Section 4 of the POCSO Act with payment of fines will be a proper

sentence.
ORDER
Accused Motleb Ali is acquitted of the charges under Section 366 IPC

and Section 4/17 of the POCSO Act and set at liberty forthwith.

Accused Ayzal Sheikh is convicted for the offence under Section 366 IPC
and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 3 years with fine of Rs 1000
in default to suffer imprisonment for 3 months.

Accused Ayzal Sheikh is further convicted for the offence under Section
4 of the POCSO Act and sentenced to rigorous imprisonment for 7 years
with fine of Rs 5000 in default to suffer imprisonment for 1 year.

Both the sentences shall run concurrently.
A free copy of the judgment be furnished to convict Ayzal Sheikh
A copy of the judgment be sent to District Magistrate, Kokrajhar

A recommendation is also made to the District Legal Services Authority,
Kokrajhar, to consider payment of adequate compensation to the victim
of this case.

Material Exhibit be kept in record until further orders.

Given under the hand and seal of this Court

Dictated by

Addl. Special Judge Addl Special Judge
Kokrajhar Kokrajhar
17 eCourtIS copy

Appendix

1. Prosecution Exhibits :-

Exhibit-1 Statement u/s 164 CrPC

Exhibit-2 Medical report

Exhibit-3 FIR

Exhibit-4 Seizure list

Exhibit-5 Charge sheet

Material Exhibit 1 School Certificate
2.Defence Exhibit Nil

3. Prosecution Witness

P.W.1 Xxx, victim

P.W.2 Xxx, victim's mother

P.W.3 Xxx, victim’s brother

P.W.4 Sri Dulal Mahato

P.W.5 Sri Subhash Sha

P.W.6 Sri Nikhil Mahato

P.W.7 Md. Sabed Ali

P.W.8 Dr. Sushma Brahma

P.W.9 Sri Ganesh Sarkar
4.Defence Witness Nil
5._Court witness Nil

Addl. Special Judge(FTC),
Kokrajhar
