1

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR
Special (POCSO) Case No. 01 of 2014.

GR Case No. 4031/13

(Section 6 of the Special POCSO Act, 2012)

State of Assam

- Versus -

Sri Subhash Sen and Sri Kusheswar Saikia

Present : Mr. P.J. Saikia, AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Appearance :
For the State : Mr. H.P .Sedai,
Public Prosecutor.

For the accused : Mr. S.E. Alam, Sr.Advocate.

Date of evidence 09-07-2015, 07-08-2015

& 02-06-2016.
Date of argument : 02-06-2016
Date of judgment : 02-06-2016

JI UDGM ENT

1. This is a case under the Protection of Child from Sexual

Offences Act, 2012 (POCSO Act in short).
2

The Prosecution case.

2. The prosecutrix was about thirteen years old at the time of
occurrence. The accused Subhash Sen is her paternal uncle. The
prosecutrix used to stay in the house of the accused Subhash Sen. It is
alleged that while she was staying in the house of Subhash Sen he had
illicit sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix. The first incident took
place on 15-02-2013. The prosecutrix did not disclose the matter to
anyone because she was allegedly threatened of dire consequence if
she disclosed the matter to anyone else. Thereafter, Subhash Sen
continued to have sexual intercourse with the prosecutrix regularly.
Sometimes later the other accused Kusheswar Saikia also joined in.
Both of them induced the prosecutrix to procure her consent for sexual
intercourse. Finally, one day the prosecutrix started to develop pain in
her stomach. She was taken to the hospital and at that time, the
doctor disclosed that the prosecutrix was actually pregnant and the
time of delivery was near. Thereafter, on 10-011-2013 the prosecutrix

gave birth to a still born baby.

3. The mother of the prosecutrix has lodged a complaint case in
the Court of the Chief Judicial Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur alleging the
aforesaid facts. The said complaint was forwarded to police for

registration of the case and thus this case came into being.

4. During the period of investigation, the victim girl was produced
before a Magistrate for recording her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C.

wherein she has supported the aforesaid facts. The victim was also
3

subjected to the medical examination. The Doctor who examined the
victim during the investigation period has reported that from physical
examination and from USG findings it was not possible to ascertain
whether the prosecutrix had delivered a baby on 10-11-2013.

Points for determination.
5. The points for determination in this trial are as to —

(i) Whether the accuseds, in furtherance of their common
intention, had committed rape upon the prosecutrix?

(ii) Whether the accuseds, in furtherance of their common
intention, had committed aggravated penetrative sexual
intercourse upon the prosecutrix? And

(iii) Whether the accuseds, in furtherance of their common

intention, criminally intimidated the prosecutrix?

Decision and Reasons thereof
6. In this case, the Investigating Officer has cited nine witnesses,
out of whom, three are official witnesses. During the trial of the case,

the prosecution side has examined as many as eight witnesses.

7. I shall take up the evidence of the prosecutrix first. She has
stated before the Prosecution counsel that while she was staying in the
house of Subhash Sen, she developed relationship with a boy named
Parimal who stayed near the house of Subhash Sen. She has stated
that she had physical relationship with Parimal and accordingly, she

became pregnant and on November, 13" she delivered a still born
4

baby. She has proved her statement recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. vide Ext.
1.

8. Now, I shall take up the evidence of the informant. She being
the mother of the prosecutrix, has stated that at the relevant time of
occurrence her daughter had missed her menstrual circle and started
to have pain in the stomach. The informant gave her daughter pain
killer tablets. Thereafter, as the pain did not subside she took her
daughter to the hospital and the doctor informed her that the
prosecutrix was pregnant. Finally, in the hospital the prosecutrix

delivered a dead baby.

9. The informant has stated before the defence counsel that her
daughter, the prosecutrix had love affairs with a boy named Parimal
who stayed near the house of Subhash Sen. The informant has stated
that the villagers put pressure on her to file the case against the

present two accused persons.

10. Similarly, the prosecutrix herself has stated before the defence
counsel that the villagers put pressure upon her and her mother to file
this case. She has also disclosed that she gave the statement Ext. 1

under pressure from the villagers.

11. Now, at this stage, I find that the evidence of the rest of the
witnesses have become irrelevant. Without any discussion on this
point, I have reasons to hold that the charges brought against the

accuseds have not been proved at all in this case.
ORDER
12. That being the position, the accused Subhash Sen and
Kusheswar Saikia are found not guilty and they are acquitted from this
case.
Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this 2"

day of June, 2016.

(P.J.Saikia)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(P.J. Saikia)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Typed by me.

(R. Hazarika),Steno.
APPENDIX

Prosecution witnesses:

P.W.1 - Victim

P.W.2 - Smti Jyoti Sen, informant
P.W. 3 - Sri Jagadish Sen,

P.W. 4 - M.O.

P.W.5- Sri Nikhil Chandra Paul,
P.W. 6 - Smt. Mahamaya Das,
P.W.7- Smt. Hiran Saikia,

P.W. 8 - Md. Omar Faruk, I.O.

Defence witnesses -

NIL
Prosecution Exhibit
Ext.1 - 164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.
Ext.2 - complaint.
Ext.3 - Medical report.
Ext.4 - advice slip
Ext.5 - Vaginal smear reports.
Ext.6 - Urine for HCG test report
Ext.7  - X-ray and USG reports
Ext.8 - Charge sheet.

Defence Exhibits -

Defence Exhibits -
NIL
( P.J. Saikia )

Special Judge
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
