se

v)
et

gions JUd9®

phema}!

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE, DHEMAJI.

Present: Shri S. Das, A.J.S.,
Sessions Judge,
Dhemaji,

JUDGMENT IN SESSIONS CASE NO. 38(DH) 2016.

U/s 366 of 1.P.C. R/W Sec 4 of POCSO Act.
(G.R. Case No.92/2016 (SLP); Silapathar P.S. Case No.29/2016 u/s 366(A) of the
Indian Penal Code read with Sec. 4 of POCSO Act)

The State of Assam
- Versus —
ShriMoina Dutta, tte Accused Person
S/O Dimbeswar Dutta,
R/O No.2 Nagaon (Ganak Gaon),
P.S. Dhemaji,
Dist.- Dhemaiji.

Committing Magistrate:- Shri P.C. Kalita,
Chief Judicial Magistrate,

Dhemaji.
Appearance:
Shri A. Fogla, Public ProseCUutOr os cweennee es For the State
Shri K.C. Sonowal, Advocate eee For the Accused

Date of prosecution evidence :01-08-2017, 19-09-2017,27-11-2017,
15-03-2018 and 20-07-2018,

Date of argument : 25-04-2019.

Date of Judgment : 09-05-2019.
JUDGMENT

UY

1. The prosecution case in brief is that on 01-02-2016
complainant- Shri Padma Deori filed an ejahar at Sissiborgaon Police Out Post
under Silapathar Police Station alleging interalia that on 24-01-2016 in the
evening at about 6 PM, his minor daughter-Smti Manashi Deori aged about
13 years was missing from their house in absence of other family members at
the house. Upon searched for the victim girl, they came to know that
accused-Moina Dutta kidnapped/abducted his minor daughter-with intent to
marry her and kept confined her in the house of an unknown person near the

house of the accused. Accordingly, on 01-02-2016 at about 10 AM they found

the victim and took help as per law.

Zi On receipt of the ejahar, 1/C, Sissiborgaon Police Out Post made
GD Entry vide No. 07/ 9016 and forwarded the same to O/C, Silapathar Police
Station for registering a Case under proper section of law. On receipt of the
ejahar, O/C, Silapathar Police Station registered a case vide Silapathar P.S.
Case No. 29/2016 Under Section 366(A) of the Indian Penal Code read with
Section 4 of POCSO Act and entrusted S.I. Lalit Saikia to investigate the Case.
Police started investigation and on completion of investigation submitted
Charge-sheet against the accused-Shri Moina Dutta u/s 366(A) of IPC read
with Sec. 4 of the POCSO Act.

Be The case came up before the learned Chief Judicial Magistrate,
Dhemaji and the Ld. Magistrate issued process for appearance of the accused
and on appearance furnished necessary copies to the accused and committed

the case to this Court.

4. On receipt of the case record and on appearance of the
accused, this Court considered the materials on record and upon hearing
both the sides, framed charge u/s 366 of IPC read with sec. 4 of POCSO Act
and read-over and explained to him to which he pleaded not guilty. The
prosecution, in order to prove its case, examined 8 witnesses including the
D

sf

Sessio

W

judge
hemaji

1/0 and M/O. After closure of prosecution evidence, statement of the accused
was recorded u/s 313 of Cr.P.C. Defence plea is of total denial. However,

defence declined to adduce evidence in support of the plea.

S. Points for determination :

(1) That you, on 94-01-2016 at about 6 PM at village-Nilakhpur
under Silapathar Police Station kidnapped Smti Manashi Deori, a minor girl
aged about 13 years, with intent that she may be compelled to marry against
her will or she will be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse and thereby you
committed an offence punishable u/s 366 of IPC.

(2) That, you on 74-01-2016 at about 6 PM at village-Nilakhpur
under Silapathar Police Station committed penetrative sexual assault on Smt.
Manashi Deori, a minor girl aged about 13 years and thereby you committed
an offence punishable 4 of POCSO Act.

6. I have gone through the evidence on record and heard

arguments of both sides.

Discussion of evidence :

Vide

7 PW1 Smti Manashi Deori stated that complainant is his father.
She knows the accused. Occurrence took place about 1 2 year back (from
the date of her deposition). On the day of occurrence her parents went to the
house of her maternal uncle. In the evening on the day of occurrence she
heard someone calling her from their house-path ( ‘Paduli’) and then she
came out of her house. Then she saw the accused. On being asked why he
(accused) called her, then he asked her to go with him (accused). When she
refused to go with him, then the accused forcibly took her to the house of his
relative uncle and kept her there for 7 days. At night she was allowed to
sleep with his grand-mother. Thereafter, one day she telephoned to her
related uncle through the mobile phone of the accused’s uncle to bring back

her. Then her uncle replied that her brother has gone out. Thereafter, she
of
ar’

sessions Judge

D

hemaji

called her mother over phone but her mother’s phone was switched off. She
then called her brother-Anil over phone about the occurrence. On that day,
her mother and her aunt came and took her back home. Accused’s father
behaved badly to her mother. Her mother informed her father over phone
about the matter. Then her father also came there and then accused’s father
also behaved badly. Her father informed the police over phone and then
police came and recovered her and took her and the accused to the police
station. Next day, police questioned her. Police got her examined medically
by Doctor. She was produced before the Magistrate and she gave statement
before the Magistrate. Exhibit- I is the said statement before the Magistrate
and Ext-1(1-2) are her signatures therein.

In cross-examination PW1 denied the defence suggestion that
she had love affair with the accused. It is denied that she had called the

accused over phone.

She (PW1) also denied the defence suggestion that while she
gave statement before police she stated that "she had love affairs with
the accused-Moina Dutta for about 1/ 2 months as per introduction.
She also loved him. Moina Dutta used to visit her house as they had
love affair. On 24-01-2016 she telephoned to Moina Dutta and she
told that she would marry her. She told him to take her away, later
on he told her that he cannot come there’.

She denied the defence suggestion that Moina Dutta did not
take her away forcibly. It is also denied that at the time of occurrence, she

was above 18 years of age.

8. PW2 Smt. Moni Deori stated that the complainant is her
husband and the victim is her daughter. Occurrence took place about 1
year back (from the date of her deposition). On the day of occurrence in the
evening at the time of prayer while she did not see her daughter at home,
she shut the door and searched for her but she did not find her daughter.
Then she came to her mother’s house on a bi-cycle. But, she did not find her
daughter there also. Her husband was at Sripani i.e. in his original home. On
the next day in the morning she informed her husband over phone taking the
same from her parent’s house. On that day a daughter-in-law of her village
told that the victim girl had been taken away by Moina Dutta. After 7 days of
the occurrence, the victim informed them over phone to take her back home.
Next day, she along with Sumi Borah went to your (house). When they told
to his family members about taking back her home, then accused’s family
members opposed it and so she (PW1) informed her husband over telephone.
As soon as her husband arrived at accused’s house, the family members of
the accused rebuked him and then her husband informed the police station.
Police came and took the victim and the accused to the police station. At the

time of occurrence the victim was 13 years old. She was a student of Class-IX.

In cross-examination PW2 stated that on the date of occurrence,
she was at home. She did not go the house of the uncle of the victim. She

does not know if the accused had love affair with the victim.

9. PW3 Dr. Juri Doley stated that on 02-02-2016 she was working
as Medical & Health Officer at Sissiborgaon Block PHC. On that day, she
examined Smt. Manashi Deori @ Maina aged 13 years on police requisition

o

from Sissiborgaon Out Post in connection with Silapathar P.S. Case

S No.229/2016 u/s 366(A) IPC R/W sec. 4 of POCSO Act. The victim was
S os Judge escorted and identified by WPC-Janaki Chetry Barman of SIlapathar Police
phema}!

Station and Smt. Moina Deori, mother of the victim. After taking consent from
the victim, she examined her in presence of accompanied woman police

constable and mother of the victim. On examination, she found as follows:-

General behavior- Normal, Mental status- Normal,
Cloths- Changed, Urine- Passed, Stool- Passed,
Findings- No Injury.

General Physical Examination:-
ae

Ss . Judge
Dhemaii

Built & Nutrition- Average, Weight-43 kg, Height- 4.8 feet,
Teeth- 13 lower jaw, 14 upper jaw, Development of Hair- a)
Auxiliary- Under developed; b) Pubic- Developed

Breast- Developed,

Findings — Healthy.

There was no any violent mark (injury) found or over the body.

Examination of Genitalia:-

 

Genital- Developed,

Pubic hair- Developed,

Labia Majora & Minora — Healthy.

Hymen- Not intact.

Injuries- No injury.

Clitoris- Healthy,

Fourchette — Healthy,

Vagina- Healthy,

Discharge and stains- No discharge.

Internal Examination - The victim girl on digital examination
(P/V) allow index figure freely without resistance.

Laboratory investigation:-

Pregnancy test- Negative,

Name of Pathologist- Chandan Saikia.

Ultrasonography- Not done.

Radiological Examination; Part X-Rayed- (1) X-Ray — wrist and

elbow (2) X- Ray —llliac crest, Name of Radiologist- Dr. Bhupen Kuli,
Dhemaji Civil Hospital.

According to Radiologist the present age of the victim is above

15 years and below 17 years.

Opinion- the victim girl on digital examination (P/V) allow

index figure freely without resistance. There was no any injury found on her
7

private parts, Urine for B HCG Test- Negative. Accordingly the present age of
the victim is above 15 years and below 17 years.

Exhibit-2 is the Medico- Legal Report of the victim and Ext.2(1)
is my signature. Ext.3 is the report of Radiologist and Ext.3(1) is the

signature of Dr. Bhupen Kuli.
Pw3 (Doctor) was not cross-examined by defence.

10. Pw4 Smti Lakhimai Dutta stated that she knows the
complainant. Accused-Moina Dutta is her son. Victim Manashi Deori is the
daughter of Padma Deori. Occurrence took place about two years back.
Accused and the victim loved each other and the victim came to their house

and stayed in their house. Later on, victim’s parents took her to their house.
Defence declined to cross-examine PW4.

it; PWS Shri Ranjan Kr. Borah stated that he knows the
complainant but, he does not know the accused. He knows the victim and her
father. Occurrence took place about two years back. On the day of
occurrence, he went to the house of Padma Deori and took betel nut in his
house and then he came to know that his daughter Manashi was missing

from his house.

Ay | |
Defence declined to cross-examine PW5.

Vg’
an Judge 12. PW6 Shri Dimbeswar Dutta stated that he knows. the

Sess '
i
ca iy complainant. Accused-Moina Dutta is his son. Victim Manashi Deori is the

daughter of Padma Deori. Occurrence took place about two years back.
Accused and the victim loved each other and the victim came to their house
and stayed in their house. Later on, victim’s parents took her to their house.6

This witness (PW6) was nor cross-examined by defence.

13. PW7 S.I. Lalit Saikia stated that on 01-02-2016 he was serving
as attached officer at Sissiborgaon Police Out POst. On that day, I/C Ganesh
ig Judge

Dhemaji

Barman received an ejahar from Shri Padma Deori. Accordingly, he made GD
Entry vide No. 07/16 dated 01-02-2016 and forwarded the ejahar to O/C,
Silapathar Police Station for registering a case. He himself took-up
investigation and proceeded to the P.O., Nilakhpur. He recorded the
statement of the complainant at the Out Post. At the P.O. he drew a sketch
map and recorded the statements of witnesses u/s 161 of CR.P.C. He
recovered the victim from the accused’s possession at Ganak Gaon and he
took custody of both victim and accused and brought him (accused) and the
victim to the Police Out Post. On 02-02-2016 O/C, Silapathar Police Station
registered a case vide SLP. P.S. Case No.29/16 u/s 366 (A) IPC R/W Sec. 4 of
POCSO Act on the basis of the ejahar received from Padma DEori and he
endorsed him as Investigating Officer. Then he formally arrested the accused
and forwarded to the court. The victim was medically examined by Doctor
and recorded her statement by the Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Thereafter, he
submitted Charge-sheet against the accused u/s 366 (A) of IPC read with
Sec. 4 of POCSO Act.

Exhibit- 4 is the GD Entry. Ext-5 is the sketch map and EXt-5(1)
is his signature. Ext-6 is the seizure list and Ext-6(1) is his signature. Ext-7 is
the Charge-sheet and Ext-7(1) is his signature. Exhibit-8 is the ejahar and
Ext-8(1) is the signature of S.I. Ganesh Barman with note. Ext-8(2) is the
signature of O/C Abdul Hannan with his note.

In cross PW7 stated that witness-Manashi Deori (victim) stated
before him that she developed love affair with Moina DUtta about 1-2 months
prior to the incident. Accused-Moina Dutta used to visit her house. She also
stated that on 24-01-2016 she made a phone call to Moina Dutta and asked
him to come and take her but Moina Dutta told that he would not be able to
come.

14. PW8 Shri Padma Deori stated that he is the complainant. He

knows the accused. Victim Manashi Dutta is his daughter. In the month of
Sess
D

4
v

ions Judge

nemaji

February/2016 one day, he received phone call from his wife to the effect
that the accused- Moina Dutta had kidnapped/abducted his daughter Manashi
from his house at Nilakh. At the time of occurrence his wife and her daughter
lived in his house at Nilakh (he has two houses one at Nilakh and the other
one is at Sripani ). At that time he was in his house at Sripani and on getting
information he immediately came to his house at Nilakh and he started to
search for his daughter, but they could not trace her out. After about one
week his daughter made call to his wife over telephone and asked her to
come to the house of the accused's relative at Moridhal. Then his wife went
there and met her daughter. Then his daughter told his wife that she would
go home if her father comes to take her. Then he was informed and he went
there, but the family members of accused Moina did not allow his daughter to
come with them. Then he informed police over telephone and police arrived
and then they recovered their daughter. He lodged complaint before police.
Ext.-8 is the ejahar and Ext.8(3) is his signature. Police gave his daughter in

his zimma.

In cross-examination PW8 stated that he lodged the complaint
after recovery of the girl. He had not mentioned in his ejahar that his
daughter was willing to come back home, but the family members of the
accused restrained her. He denied the defence suggestion that he did not
state before police that his daughter was willing to come back home, but the
family members of the accused restrained her. He denied that his daughter
was above 18 years of age at the time of occurrence. Further, PW8 denied
the defence suggestion that his daughter had love affairs with the accused
and she had eloped with him on her own accord.

Appreciation of Evidence :

5. From the discussion of the evidence on record it appears that
the victim has been examined as PW1. According to PW1 on the relevant
date and time the accused came in front of her house and called her out.
10

Accordingly she came out and saw the accused. Then accused asked her to
come with him. When she refused, accused forcibly took her on his
motorcycle to the house of his uncle and at the house of his uncle they
stayed for about 7 days. PW1 also stated that during these days she slept
with accused’s grandmother. PW2 is the mother. In her evidence she stated
that on the relevant date her daughter went missing. PW5 and PW6 heard
about the incident. PW3 is the doctor who examined the victim. PW7 is the
IO and PWS is the complainant. The complainant stated that on the date of
occurrence he received a phone call from his wife to the effect that accused
Monia Dutta kidnapped his daughter. At that time he was at Sripani. He also
stated that his daughter was confined in the house of accused Monia Dutta
and then her daughter somehow telephoned her mother and they recovered
their daughter with the help of police. Defence cross examined PW1 and put
suggestion that the victim gave statement before police that she had love
affairs with the accused-Moina Dutta for about 1/2 months.She also loved
him. Moina Dutta used to visit her house as they had love affair. On 24-01-
2016 she telephoned to Moina Dutta and she told that she would marry him.
She told him to take her away, later on he told her that he cannot come there.

16. I have carefully considered the evidence of pws particularly the
XY evidence of the victim. It transpires that on the date of occurrence the
Nv accused met the victim and the accused persuaded the victim to go with him.

ions Judge It also transpires from the evidence of pw1 that she stayed in the house of
Sess zs

phemal! the accused’s uncle but the accused did not come in physical contact with the

victim. Nor the accused tried to abuse her physically.

17. So it is found from the evidence of PW1 that the accused did
not commit any sexual assault on the victim. Now let me look into the
ingredients of sec 366 IPC.

To prove an offence u/s 366 prosecution has to prove the
following ingredients—
ol

. Judge
Dhemaj!

11

1. The accused kidnapped or abducted a woman,
2. Accused intended or knew it likely that

(a) The woman abducted or kidnapped would be compel
to marry any person against her will or

(b) she would be forced or seduced to illicit intercourse.

18. In the instant case we find that there is absence of evidence as
regards accused compelling the victim to marry or forcing or seducing her to
illicit. intercourse. Hence, the ingredients of section 366 IPC are not
established in this case. However, there is enough evidence on record to
make out a case of kidnapping. It reveals from the record that the victim was
a student of class X and in her evidence she stated that at the time of
occurrence she was aged 14 years. The medical report Ext.3 regarding test
for determination of age would show that the victim is above 15 years and

below 17 years.

19. 361 IPC reads Kidnapping from lawful guardianship. —
“Whoever takes or entices any minor under sixteen years of age if a male, or
under eighteen years of age if a female, or any person of unsound mind, out
of the keeping of the lawful guardian of such minor or person of unsound
mind, without the consent of such guardian, is said to kidnap such minor or
person from lawful guardianship”.

Explanation.—The words “lawful guardian” in this section
include any person lawfully entrusted with the care or custody of such

minor or other person.

20. Having considered the materials on records in its entirety, I find

that a case u/s 363 of IPC is made out against the accused.

21. In my opinion the accused can be convicted u/s 363 IPC by
invoking sec 222 Cr.PC though no charge has been framed.
12

22. In view of what has been discussed above, I find that
prosecution has been able to prove the charge u/s 363 of IPC against the
accused beyond all reasonable doubt. I find that prosecution has failed to
prove the charge u/s 366 IPC and 4 of POCSO Act beyond reasonable doubt.

ORDER:

2: In the result I find accused Moina Dutta guilty u/s 363 IPC.
Accordingly the accused is convicted thereunder. I find the accused not guilty
u/s 366 IPC and 4 of POCSO Act. Accordingly he is acquitted of the charges.

24. Heard the accused Moina Dutta on the point of sentence. It is
submitted that his father is old and ailing and he is only earning member of
his family and he prays for lenient view while awarding sentence.

25. Considering all aspect the accused is sentenced to S.I. for 1
(one) month and to pay a fine of Rs.1,000/-(one thousand) i.d. S.I. for
another 1(one) month u/s 363 IPC.

26. Set off the period of detention.

af, A free copy of judgment be given to the accused person.

28. Judgment is pronounced in open Court.

29. Given under my hand and seal of this Court on this the 9%
day of May/2019.

st”?

eas Juste

hyerevaii
