Pagel

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR
SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 38 of 2018
Under section 8 of POCSO Act/354 of IPC.
(Arising out of Dhekiajuli PS Case No. 302/18)

State of Assam

—Vs—
Md. Majibur Rahman sas Accused Person

Present : Smti I. Barman,AJS,
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State :  Mr.M.C. Baruah,

Special\Public Prosecutor

For the accused : Md. Nijamuddin, Advocate
Date of Argument : 27-06-2019
Date of Judgment : 29-06 -2019.
JUDGMENT
1. The prosecution case against the accused person as projected in the

FIR (Ext. 2), in brief, is that on 21-04-2018, at around 8:30 p.m. finding the
informant’s 17 years old victim daughter alone on the road, accused Mojibur
Rahman with intent to commit her rape attempted to take her to the nearby
jungle but on raising alarm, local public caught red handed the accused and

handed over to police.

2. On receipt of the FIR (Ext.2) on 22-04-2018 from the informant (PW
4), the victim’s father, Dhekiajuli P.S. Case No. 302/2018 u/s 376/511 of IPC

read with section 8 of POCSO Act was registered and launched investigation

 
Page 2

of the case. During investigation, the Investigating Officer (PW 8) recorded
the statement of the witnesses, sent the victim for medical examination, got
her statement recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and on completion of investigation
having found materials, laid chargesheet against the accused Majibur Rahman
u/s 376/511 of the IPC.

3. On appearance of the accused person before this Court, after
furnishing the copies of the documents as required u/s 207 of Cr.P.C. and
having heard both parties, my learned predecessor, framed charge against
the accused u/s 8 of POCSO Act and particulars of the charge on ‘being read
over and explained to the accused person, he pleaded«not guilty and claimed
for trial. Lateron charge u/s 354 of IPC was added .and on being read over the

charge, the accused pleaded not guilty and stood for. trial.

4. To substantiate the case, prosecution examined as many as nine
witnesses. On closure of the prosecution, evidence, statement of the accused
was recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C. wherein. the accused denied all the incriminating
evidence that emerged against him-and took the plea that the brother of the
victim took him to their house with intent to give marriage the victim to him
forcefully but when he refused:to marry her, he was handed over to police.

5. The points,for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether the accused Majibur Rahman on 21-04-2018 at around 8 p.m.
at village Dolabari Kochari under Dhekiajuli Police Station committed sexual
assault on the victim Miss "X", aged about 17 years, and thereby committed
an offence punishable under section 8 of POCSO Act? And

(2) "Whether the accused Majibur Rahman used criminal force to the victim

with intent to outrage her modesty?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

6. Mr. M.C. Baruah, learned Special Public Prosecutor during argument
referred me to the evidence of PW 2 and PW 5, the close relatives of the
victim, who hearing alarm when reached the place of occurrence, had seen
the accused pulling the victim towards jungle. Mr. Baruah also submitted that
the prosecution has established the case against the accused beyond all

reasonable doubt.

 
Page 3

7. Against the submissions, Md. Nijamuddin, the learned counsel of
defence has argued that being a major one, the victim on her own came out
from home and met the accused and the other witnesses being the interested

witnesses cannot be believed and benefit should go to the accused person.

8. In the case in hand, the informant claimed the age of the victim as
17 years in the FIR whereas the victim in her deposition as PW 3 stated that
at the relevant time she was about 18 years. The Investigating Officer seized
no document regarding age of the victim. On the other hand, the medical
report suggestive that the victim is above 18 years and below 20 years. In the
above evidence coupled with the medical evidence, it can\be.safely held that
she was major at the time of incident and as such, it.cannot»be held that she
was a child as defined in section 2(d) of POCSO Act and the alleged offence
does not come within the ambit of POCSO Act.

9. Now, the question is whether the accused Majibur Rahman
committed any offence on the victimygirl, In this respect it would be apposite

to have a bird’s view of the evidence_on record.

10. PW 1 Dr. Rika Ingtipi, the Medical Officer deposed that on 03-05-
2018 she examined the victim who gave history of sexual assault by one
Majibur Rahman who.used to frequently talk with her on phone since last two
months, called\her to a neighbour’s house at 8 p.m. and sexually assaulted
her and ‘on examination found — no tear on hymen and as per X-ray report
she.is.above 18 years and below 20 years but no any violence mark was
foundson her body or on her private parts. The doctor proved the medical
report as Ext.1.

11. PW 2, the uncle of the victim girl, stated that on the day of incident
at around 8 p.m. hearing hulla of his niece/victim near jungle, he along with
Asadul and Khalil rushed to the place of occurrence and saw the accused
dragging his niece by holding her hand and attempted to commit her rape.
Then they apprehended the accused and the victim girl and informed the
matter to the family members of the accused. Many people gathered there.
The family members of the accused also came to their house. Thereafter, his

brother lodged the FIR and police arrested the accused.

 
Page 4

During cross he stated that at the time of incident he was at home
which is adjacent to the victim’s house. The jungle where the accused and the

victim were found is about 50 meter away from his house.

12. The star witness of the case i.e. the victim (PW 3) deposed that on
the day of incident, at around 8 p.m., accused rang her and asked her to take
him to her house but she refused to come out due to absence of her parents.
But the accused repeatedly asked her to come out and at last when she went
out, the accused took her inside the jungle by holding her hands forcefully. On
raising alarm, her uncle (PW 2) and her brother-in-law (PW5) rushed to the
place of occurrence and brought her home along with, the ‘accused. The
accused dragged her to jungle with intent to commit misdeed means rape.
The accused was a married one at the time of incident. She reported the
whole incident to her father and then her. father.lodged the case against the
accused. She also accompanied her father to the police station. Police sent
her to TMCH her medical examination and*got recorded her statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C. During cross, she admitted thatthe accused used to talk with her over

phone prior to the incident.

13. PW 4 is thenformant as well as the father of the victim. He deposed
that on the day-ofvincident, at around 8 p.m. the accused who is a married
person asked. his\victim daughter over phone to take him to his (PW1) house.
Accordingly, when his victim daughter went out, the accused by holding her
hands, ‘forcefully took her to the nearby jungle. Then on raising alarm, victim’s
uncle (PW 2) and Asadul rushed to the place of occurrence and brought his
daughter along with the accused to his house. He stated that the accused
dragged his daughter to jungle with intent to commit rape and the victim
reported him about the incident. Regarding the incident, though local public
called the father of the accused but he did not come. Thereafter, he filed the
FIR. During cross, he stated that at the relevant time of incident, he was at
Mazjid. He admitted that he had not seen the incident.

14, PW 5, the brother-in-law of the victim, testified that on the day of
incident at around 8 p.m. while the victim was standing near the road, the

accused by holding her hands dragged her towards the jungle with intent to
Page 5

commit her rape. Then hearing alarm of the girl, he rushed to the place of
occurrence and had seen the accused dragging her towards jungle by holding
her hands with intent to commit her rape. Then he brought the victim and the

accused to the house of the victim.

During cross, he denied the suggestion that when the accused
refused to marry the victim, they concocted the story and filed the false case

against the accused.

15. PW 6 Baharul Islam turned hostile. He stated that on the day of
incident he had seen a gathering on the road and camesto know that when

the accused came to meet a girl, he was apprehended:

16. PW 7 Noor Islam deposed that on theday*ofincident, at around 8/9
p.m. on being informed him by one person‘over.phone that an incident took
place in the house of the informant, he went there and had seen the accused.
There he came to know that the accused ‘took the victim girl to the jungle by
calling her over phone but on raising. alarm by the victim, local people caught
the accused. On enquiry, both.the. victim and the accused denied any affairs

between them.

17. PW 8, Danda Dhar Kumar, the Investigating Officer of this case, in
his evidencesstated ‘that on 22-04-2018 on receipt of an FIR from PW 4, the
father of the victin, he made the GDE No. 331 dated 22-04-2018 and
forwarded \the same to the O/C, Dhekiajuli PS for registering a case.
Accordingly, Dhekiajuli PS Case No. 302/18 u/s 376/511 of IPC read with
section 8 of POCSO Act was registered. On the same day, finding the
informant at the out post, he recorded the statement of the informant, visited
the place of occurrence and drew the sketch map of the place of occurrence
vide Ext.3. He proved the extract copy of GDE No. 331 dated 22-04-2018 as
Ext. 4. He also recorded the statement of the victim and other witnesses, sent
the victim for medical examination, got recorded the statement of the victim
u/s 164 Cr.P.C. and on completion of investigation, submitted chargesheet
against the accused u/s 376/511 of IPC vide Ext. 5. PW 8 confirmed the

statement of hostile witness Baharul Islam (PW 6) made before him. During

 
Page 6

cross, he admitted that the place of occurrence is a road. He also testified that

as per medical report the age of the victim was above 18 years.

18. PW 9 Smti Sparsita Garg, the learned Judicial Magistrate, 1% class,
Tezpur, in her evidence stated that on 23-04-2018 she recorded the
statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C. in the court chamber in connection
with Dhekiajuli pS Case No. 302/18 u/s 376/511 of the IPC r/w section 8 of
POCSO Act and after read over the same, the victim put her thumb impression

on it.

19. In the case in hand, the evidence of the victim PW 3 reveals that on
the day at around 8 p.m. accused rang her asking to-take-him to her house
and when she refused for absence of her parents, he ‘again repeatedly called
her to come. At last, she came out from home,but then the accused took her
inside the jungle by holding her hand forcefully. Then on raising alarm, her
uncle Samaruddin and brother-in-law Asadul came there and brought her
along with the accused to her house»The accused dragged her to jungle with
intent to commit misdeed. Clouseson the heels of her evdience, her uncle
Samaruddin (PW 2) stated that on the day at around 8 p.m. hearing alarm of
the victim, he along«with,Asadul (PW 5) and Khalil rushed there and saw the
accused holding.the victim’s hand dragging her for attempting to commit rape
and then they caught the accused and the victim. PW 5 Asadul Khan also
categorically stated that hearing hulla he went to the place of occurrence and
sawethe accused holding the hands of the victim dragging her towards the
jungleewith intent to commit rape. PW 7 Noor Islam, the then VDP secretary
heard that the accused took the victim to the jungle by calling her over
phone. On raising alarm, people gathered there and caught the accused. PW
4, the victim’s father also deposed that on the day of incident, at around 8
p.m. accused called his daughter over phone asking her to take him to their
house and when his daughter went out, the accused took her inside the
jungle by holding her hands forcefully. Then on raising alarm, PW 2 and PW 5

rushed there and brought the victim and the accused to his house.

20. The evidence of victim shows that on that night at around 8 p.m. on

being called by the accused though the victim at first did not agree but later

 
Page 7

she came out and then the accused dragged her to the jungle by holding her
hands forcefully with intent to commit misdeed. It is in her evidence that prior
to the incident, the accused used to talk with her over phone and his house is
just 100 meter away from her house. So, the accused was well known to her
for which perhaps on being called by the accused at 8 p.m. she came out
from home. On raising alarm, her uncle PW 2 and brother-in-law (PW 5)
rushed there and had seen the accused dragging her towards the jungle by
holding her hands. On the other hand, PW 4 the victim's father testified that
the accused had taken her inside the jungle while so far the.evidence of the
victim herself, she was dragged towards jungle not inside thesjungle. The
sketch map, Ext. 3 also reveals that place of occurrence is a‘road and at a few
distance there is jungle. Though as per the testimony.of the victim and her
father, on being asked by the accused over phone, the victim came out and
then the accused pulled her towards the jungle but according to PW 2 the
paternal uncle of the victim, the accused, had-taken away the victim from her
house. On the other hand, PW 5, the.brother-in-law of the victim who on that
day in his father-in-law’s /informant’s house, stated that while the victim was
standing near the road,. the accused dragged her towards the jungle. Here a
question arises as to:beinga girl of 18 years, why she came out from home at
8.30 p.m. without\informing at home. Though there are discrepancies as to
whether the victim on calling by the accused, came out from home or whether
she wasytaken by the accused from her house but the evidence of the PWs
and considering the fact that prior to the incident, the victim was in habit to
talk with, the accused, possibility of coming out from home voluntarily on call
of the accused cannot be ruled out. The independent witness PW 6 though
turned hostile but corroborating the presence of the accused at the place of
occurrence, he also stated that the accused came to meet a girl and during
cross by prosecution he admitted that lateron he heard that the accused
forcibly took the victim to the jungle with attempt to commit rape. Another
independent witness PW 7 Noor Islam the VDP Secretary also deposed that on
being informed he came and heard that the accused took the victim towards
the jungle by calling her over phone and then on raising alarm by the victim,

people gathered there and caught the accused. Though the accused in

 
Page 8

statement u/s 313 Cr.P.C. took the plea that the brother of the victim took
him to their house and asked to marry the victim and when he refused, he
was handed over to police but examined none to substantiate the plea. The
accused even did not put him in witness box to prove the same. From the
evidence of the PWs discussed above, it is established that on being called by
the accused, the victim came out from home and as soon as he holding her
hands had taken her towards jungle she raised alarm and then the people

gathered there and caught the accused.

21. Now, let us see as to whether the facts as discussed above, it can be
said to be an attempt to commit rape attracting section 376/511, of IPC which
involvement the question as to whether it was an.attempt.to commit rape or

criminal assault.

22. The distinction between attempt ‘to\commit rape and the criminal
assault has been discussed in the case of Rex Vs. James Lloyd reported in
(1836) 7 C and P 817 : 173 ER «141, while summing up the charge it is

observed as follows :-

“In order to find the prisoner guilty of an assault with intent to
commit a rape, you must be satisfied that the prisoner, when he
laid hold the prosecutrix not only desired to gratify his passions
upon, her, persons but that he intended to do so at all events and

notwithstanding any resistance on her part.”

23. Again in the case of Empress Vs. Shankar reported in (1991)
ILR\R‘5 Bom. 403, the accused was charged for an attempt to commit rape

Wherein observed as follows :

“We believe that in this country indecent assaults are often
magnified into attempts at rape and even more often into rape
itself ; and we think that conviction of an attempt at rape ought
not to be arrived at unless the Court be satisfied that the conduct
of the accused indicated a determination to gratify his passions at

all events and inspite of all resistance.”

 
Page 9

24. Whether a certain act amounts to attempt to commit a particular
offence is a question of fact dependent on the nature of the offence and the

steps necessary to take in order to commit it.

25. The Hon’ble Supreme Court in the case of Aman Kumar and Anr.
Vs. State of Haryanna, (2004) 4 SCC 379 while examining an attempt to

commit rape held as follows :-

“8. The plea relating to applicability of Section 376 read, with Section
511, IPC needs careful consideration. In every crime, there is first,
intention to commit, secondly preparation to commit it, thirdly,
attempt to commit it. If the third stage, that is, attempt is successful,
then the crime is complete. If the attempt, fails the crime is not
complete, but law punishes the person, attempting the act. Section
511 is a general provision dealing with=attempts to commit offences
not made punishable by other specific sections. It makes punishable
all attempts to commit°offences punishable with imprisonment and
not only those punishable with death. An attempt is made
punishable, because every attempt, although it falls short of success,
must create alarm, which by itself is an injury, and the moral guilt of
the offender_is the same as if he had succeeded. Moral guilt must be
united. to injury in order to justify punishment. As the injury is not as
great as if the act had been committed, only half the punishment is

awarded.

9. A culprit first intends to commit the offence, then makes
preparation for committing it and thereafter attempts to commit the
offence. If the attempt succeeds, he has committed the offence; if it
fails due to reasons beyond his control, he is said to have attempted
to commit the offence. Attempt to commit an offence can be said to
begin when the preparations are complete and the culprit
commences to do something with the intention of committing the
offence and which is a step towards the commission of the offence.

The moment he commences to do an act with the necessary

 
Page 10

intention, he commences his attempt to commit the offence. The
word ‘attempt’ is not itself defined, and must, therefore, be taken in
its ordinary meaning. This is exactly what the provisions of Section
511 require. An attempt to commit a crime is to be distinguished
from an intention to commit it; and from preparation made for its
commission. Mere intention to commit an offence, not followed by
any act, cannot constitute an offence. The will is not be taken for the
deed unless there be some external act which shows that progress
has been made in the direction of it, or towards ‘maturing and
effecting it. Intention is the direction of conduct.towards the object
chosen upon considering the motives which ‘suggest the choice.
Preparation consists in devising or arranging the Means or measures
necessary for the commission of thesoffence. It differs widely from
attempt which is the direct movement towards the commission after
preparations are made. Preparation to commit an offence is
punishable only when the preparation is to commit offences under
Section 122 (waging war.against the Government of India) and
Section 399 (preparation to commit dacoity). The dividing line
between a mere preparation and an attempt is sometimes thin and
has to be, decided on the facts of each case. There is a greater

degree of determination in attempt as compared with preparation.

10. An attempt to commit an offence is an act, or a series of acts,
which leads inevitably to the commission of the offence, unless
something, which the doer of the act neither foresaw nor intended,
happens to prevent this. An attempt may be described to be an act
done in part execution of a criminal design, amounting to more than
mere preparation, but falling short of actual consummation, and,
possessing, except for failure to consummate, all the elements of the
substantive crime. In other words, an attempt consists in it the intent
to commit a crime, falling short of, its actual commission. It may
consequently be defined as that which if not prevented would have

resulted in the full consummation of the act attempted. The

 
Page 11

illustrations given in Section 511 clearly show the legislative intention
to make a difference between the cases of a mere preparation and

an attempt.”

26. So, in order to find an accused guilty of an attempt with intent to
commit a rape, Court has to be satisfied that the accused, when he laid hold
of the prosecutrix, not only desired to gratify his passions upon her person,
but that he intended to do so at all events. The conduct of the accused is to

be indicative of a determination to gratify his passions at all events.

27. In the instant case, the cogent evidence of the PWs shows that on
the day at around 8.30 p.m., the victim came out from‘home, may be she
willingly came out on call of the accused but«after she came out, she was
pulling by the accused towards jungle. There is\no.iota of evidence that the
accused did something with intent to commitwrape. The unshaken evidence of
the PWs as discussed above, the conclusive which is irresistible is that the
accused holding the hands of the victim: while was taking towards jungle, on
raising alarm by the victim, ‘others reached there and caught the accused.
Thus the act of the accused’shows that it would not come within the purview
of section 376/511 of.the IPC and though the accused might not had the
intention to commit-her rape but the act of the accused in pulling the victim
by holdingsher.hand towards the jungle at around 8.30 p.m. would certainly
amounts.to an act of physical contact and advances involving unwelcome and

explicit Sexual overtures attracting section 354 A of IPC.

28. Accordingly, accused Md. Majibur Rahman is convicted for the
offence punishable u/s 354 A of the IPC.

29. Convict/accused is heard on the point of sentence. He pleaded for

leniency and stated that he is to look after his wife.

30. I gave my anxious consideration on the aspect of quantum of
sentence. Accused is a cultivator in occupation having his wife. Considering

the facts and circumstances of the case and nature of offence committed by

 
Page 12

the accused, I am not inclined to extend the benefit to the convict under the

provision of Probation of Offenders Act.

31. Record reveals that the accused in in hajot since 23-04-2018 till 16-
06-2018. In given facts and circumstances of the case in its entirety, I am of
the considered opinion that ends of justice would be satisfied if the accused is
sentenced to undergo Simple Imprisonment for 50 (fifty) days with fine of
Rs. 5,000/- (Rupees five thousand) only for the offence punishable u/s 354 A
of the IPC in default to undergo Simple Imprisonment for 15 (fifteen) days.
32. The period of detention already undergone by the convict shall be set
off against the term of imprisonment as per provisions \of*Section 428 of
Cr.P.C.
The fine amount on realization be paid to the victim.

33. Let a free copy of the Judgment be furnished to the convict.
Also send a copy of the Judgment to the District Magistrate, Sonitpur, Tezpur

as per provision of section 365 of Cr.P.C.

34. Given under my Hand_and Seal.of this Court on this the 29" day of June,
2019.
(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictatedvand: corrected by me.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.
Page 13

APPENDIX

Prosecution witnesses.

Ext. 1
Ext. 2

Ext. 3
Ext. 4

Ext. 5

Con ag & WNP

PW 1
PW 2
PW 3
PW 4
PW 5
PW 6
PW 7
PW 8
PW 9

: Dr. R. Ingtipi, M.O.

: Uncle of the victim.

: victim

: father of the victim

: Asadul Khan,

: Baharul Islam.

: Noor Islam

: 1.0. Danda Dhar Kumar.

: S. Garg, Judl. Magistrate, 1° class.

Exhibits.

Medical report.
FIR

Sketch map
Extract copy. of GDE No. 331 dt.22-04-18.

Chargesheet.

(I.Barman)
Special Judge,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
