Page 1 of 9

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused u/s
313 Cr.P.C.

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment

Counsel.for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

81 OF 2018

(Under Section 448 IPC read with
section u/s 8 of the POCSO Act. )

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS
Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur
State of Assam

-Vs-
Sri Gobinda Karmakar,
Son of Dandia Karmakar,
Resident of Dhulapadung Tea Estate,
Police Station —’ Rangapara,
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
31/10/2018

12/11/2018

12/11/2018

12/11/2018

12/11/2018

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Public prosecutor

Sonitpur.

Smti Dulumoni Sinha, Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Gobinda Karmakar is put for trial for allegation
of charge under Section 448/376/511 of the IPC read with section 8 of the

POCSO Act, 2012.

 
Page 2 of 9

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on or about
2.30 p.m. of 18-09-2018 taking advantage of absence of informant, accused
who belongs to the neighbour of the complainant entered into their house and

committed rape on her daughter. Hence, this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the informant Anita Sowra before the O/C of
Rangapara Police station on 18-09-2018. On being received the ejahar, Officer-
In-Charge of Rangapara Police Station registered the case vide Rangapara P.S.
Case No. 169/2018 u/s 448/376(1) of the IPC read with section 4.0f the POCSO
Act. After completion of usual investigation, the O/C Rangapara»Police Station
filed charge sheet u/s 448/376/511 of IPC r/w section’8 ofthe POCSO Act

against the accused Sri Gobinda Karmakar.

4. On being appeared the accused beforexthis\Court, after hearing both
parties, I framed charge u/s 448/376/511) of the IPC read with section 8 of
POCSO Act, 2012 against the accused Sri Gobinda Karmakar — and particulars
of the charge was read over, explained to the accused to which he pleads not

guilty and claims to be tried.

5. To substantiate the.case;»prosecution has examined three witnesses i.e.
the complainant, victim and other one independent witness. After recording
evidence of the ‘said complainant, victim and other independent witnesses,
learned counsel for. the accused submitted to close the evidence on the ground
that the statement-of material witnesses reveals no any materials as to any of

the alleged.charge against the accused.
6. Learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur has also conceded.

is On perusal of the statement of the aforesaid witnesses, i.e.
complainant, victim and other one independent witness, it appears that none of
the witnesses reveals any materials of any alleged offence against the accused.
Therefore, I think prosecution case would not develop even if examined the
other witnesses. Speedy trial is the right of the accused person. Considering all
these aspects, prosecution evidence is closed. Accused is examined u/s 313

Cr.P.C. All the allegations made against the accused and evidence appears

 
Page 3 of 9

against the accused are put before him for his explanation where he denied the

allegations and declined to adduce defence evidence.

8. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels of both
sides.
9. The point for decision in this case is that -

(1) "Whether on or about 2.30 p.m. of 18-09-2018 at Dhulapadung
Tea Estate under Rangapara Police station, the accused committed
criminal trespass by entering into the house of informant Anita
Sowra with intent to commit rape on Miss X (15 years of age-when
she was alone at home and thereby committed an offence
punishable under section 448 of the IPC?

(2) Whether the accused on the same. date, time and place
attempted to commit rape on the. victim Miss X and thereby
committed an offence punishable u/s 376/511. of the IPC?

(3) Whether the accused on the same date, time and place
committed sexual assault on Miss |X and thereby committed an
offence punishable under section 8 of the Protection of Child from
Sexual Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

10. To arrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence on

record.

11. PW 1 Smti_Anita Sowra who is the complainant of this case, stated
before the court that victim is her adopted daughter. Her daughter is aged
about'L5\years. The incident took place on 18 -09-2018 at about 2.30 p.m. At
that time she was not present at home. Her victim daughter during that time
was alone at home. While she returned to home at about 4.30 p.m. she found
her daughter was crying. At about 4 p.m. her husband on being came to know
about the incident from one of the neighbor informed her over phone about the
incident. While she asked her daughter why she was crying, she reported that
accused came to their house asked her to open the door. When her daughter
opened the door accused trespassed into the house and dragged the clothes of
her daughter with intent to put off her clothes. Ext. 1 is the ejahar and Ext.

1(1) is her signature. Police seized one white and green striped sporting, one

 
Page 4 of 9

about 5 ft length printed Urna and black and blue half pant vide seizurelist, Ext.

2 where she put signature as witness. Ext. 2 (1) is her signature.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she has adopted the victim
when she was 7/8 years old. She did not admit her in school. She has been
residing with her for more than 12 years. From that count she was above 18
years at the time of incident. She has not stated to scribe to write the age of
her daughter as 15 years. The ejahar was written by one scribe. Before putting
her signature she did not read the ejahar neither it was read overto‘her by the
scribe. In fact there is no such incident took place as stated in the ejahar. She
put signature in the ejahar at the instigation of local public. She has not seen
neither she has any personal knowledge that accused has.entered into their
house or not. It is a fact that accused used to visit\their house to meet her
husband quite off and on. In fact police did ‘not.record her statement. They

have no any complain against the accused.

12. PW 2, Sri Benjamin Hasapurty, stated before the court that he knows
the accused Gobinda Karmakar. He also knows the victim girl who is aged
about 17 years. The mother of the victim who is a Nurse also present in the
court today. The incident.took place about three months ago. Sarathi Sowra
informed him over.phone,that his daughter was raped by Gobinda Karmakar.
Then he advised. him=to go to the Police station. Thereafter, mother of the
victim filedsthe ejahar. Police seized one white and green striped sporting, one
about 5 ft length printed Urna and black and blue half pant vide seizurelist, Ext.

2 where\she ‘put signature as witness. Ext. 2 (2) is her signature.

In cross-examination, he admitted that the garden where he lived is at
a distance of 8 km from Dhulapadung Tea estate. He can not say whether the
incident is true or false. He did not enquire regarding the veracity of the

information. Lateron he came to know that no such incident took place.

13. PW33, the victim Miss X, stated before the court that complainant is her
mother. Accused Gobinda is their nieghbour. He often used to visit their house.
The incident took place about 3 months ago. At about 2.30 p.m., she was in

the home. Accused came to their house and asked her whether her father is

 
Page 5 of 9

available or not. She replied that her father is absent. Accused came and
dragged her sporting, then she raised alarm. On hearing her hulla neighbouring
people arrived there. At about 4.30 p/.m. her mother came. During that time
she was crying. On being enquired by her mother, she reported that accused
came to their house and only dragged her sporting but he did not do anything.
Then her mother filed the case. After instituting the case police recorded her
statement u/s 161 Cr.P.C. In the next day, police took her to the hospital for
medical examination. On that day, her statement was recorded through the
learned Magistrate u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Ext. 3 is her statement and_Ext.3(1) Is her

signature. During investigation police seized her wearing apparels.

In cross-examination she admitted that she could not.say her exact age.
She has been residing with her mother for more than 12 years. Her age may be
18 years or above 18 years. When she was adopted by her mother she was 7/8
years old. Accused Gobinda used to visit their house off and on. When accused
Gobinda entered into their house she was feeding meal to her younger brother
who is in her lap, aged about 2% years. old. When accused attempted to took
her younger brother to his lap fromsher lap, accidently her sporting was also
dragged. In fact, accused hasno,any bad intention. It occurred due to accident
but out of fear she raised alarm and started to crying. When her mother arrived
at home she reported about the incident. At the time of recording her
statement at ‘police. station she has been followed by some local public. In fact
she reported to the I.0. what she has stated before the court. Two local
women, who accompanied her to the court tutored her what to state before the
learned, Magistrate. Accordingly, she made statement before the learned
Magistrate. She does not have any grievance against the accused. As the
accused has committed no any offence as alleged, so she has no any objection,

if he is enlarged on acquittal.
14. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case.

Now, the question come — whether the aforesaid evidence adduced by

the complainant, victim and other one witness, the accused can be convicted?

 
Page 6 of 9

15. Since the case is charged u/s 448/376/511 of the IPC read with section
8 of POCSO Act so, I think to see what is the ingredients of 448 of the IPC and
8 of the POCSO Act.

16. To prove the charge under Section 448 of the IPC, the prosecution must
prove :-

“()) that the accused committed criminal trespass.

(ii) that such criminal trespass was committed by entering into,
or remaining in, a building, tent or vessels.
(ili) that such building, tent, or vessel, was used as a human
dwelling or as a place of worship, or as a place for the custody of
property.”

17. Since the case is charged u/s 376 read with section 511 of the IPC,

therefore, the prosecution is to prove that accusedvattempted*to commit rape

upon the victim:-

18. It has been held in Rex Vs. Lloyed, that-.“Inorder to find the prisoner
guilty of an assault with intent to commit a rape, you must be satisfied that the
prisoner. When he laid hold of thes,prosecutrix, not only desired to gratify his
passions upon her person, but.that he intended to do so at all events and
notwithstanding any resistance..onsher part. We believe that in this country
indecent assaults are<often. magnified into attempts at rape, and even more
often into rape itself.; and_we think a conviction of an attempt at rape ought
not to be arrived, at, Unless the Court be satisfied that the conduct of the
accused indicated_a determination to gratify his passions at all events, and
inspite ofall resistance. In the present case, having regard to the medical
evidence,.and to the varying statements made at different times by the
complainant, we find it impossible to place entire reliance upon her statement;
and, as to the extent of the violence to which she was subjected, there is no
evidence except her own statement. The Sessions Court has not believed her
allegation that penetration took place, and has consequently refused to convict
the prisoner of rape. We feel a similar hesitation in coming to the conclusion,
on the complainant’s unsupported statement, that the prisoner’s conduct
amounted to an attempt to commit rape. He seems to have desisted before he
was interrupted ; and no evidence has been given to show that the

complainant’s person showed marks of violence nor that the clothes, either of

 
Page 7 of 9

the complainant or the prisoner showed any stains which would indicate to

what point the prisoner’s criminality had proceeded.

19. Similarly, to bring the charge under section 8 of the Protection of Child
from Sexual Offences (POCSO) Act, prosecution must prove the ingredients
mentioned in section 7 of the POCSO Act :-

Section 7 - sexual assault-
“Whoever, with sexual intent touches the vagina, penis,

anus or breast of the child or makes the child touch the vagina,

penis, anus or breast of such person or any other person, or does

any other act with sexual intent which involves physical contact

without penetration issaid to commit sexual assault”
20. Here in this case, the complainant who is the mother of the victim
clearly admitted that in fact there is no such incident took place as stated in the
ejahar. She put signature in the ejahar at the instigation. of local public. She has
not seen neither she has any personal knowledge that.accused has entered into
their house or not. Similarly, victim also admitted in cross-examination that
when the accused entered into their house she was feeding meal to her
younger brother who is in herdap, aged, about 212 years old. When accused
attempted to took her younger brother to his lap from her lap, accidently her
sporting was also dragged: In fact, accused has no any bad intention. It
occurred due to accident,but out of fear she raised alarm and started to crying.
When her mother\arrived at home she reported about the incident to her.
Therefore, «there is no any criminal intention of accused as stated by
complainantvas well as the victim, therefore, the allegation of charge u/s
448/376/511. of the IPC is failed.

Similarly, here in this case, the victim herself admitted that when the
accused attempted to took her younger brother to his lap from her lap,
accidently her sporting was also dragged. In fact, accused has no any bad
intention. It occurred due to accident but out of fear she raised alarm and
started to cry. At last, the victim stated that she do not have any grievance
against the accused. It is also stated that as the accused has committed no any
offence as alleged, so she has no any objection, if he is enlarged on acquittal.

Similarly, complainant has also admitted that she has no any complain against

 
Page 8 of 9

the accused. Therefore, not a single ingredient of aforesaid alleged charge u/s
8 of the POCSO Act was complied, hence, failed.

21. Under such circumstances, I have no hesitation to hold that the
prosecution has failed to prove any of the charge levelled against the accused
beyond any reasonable doubt. Hence, I acquit the accused Sri Gobindra

Karmakar and set him at liberty.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 12". day of
November, 2018.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken.and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno
Page 9 of 9

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

1. Prosecution Witness No.1 ‘= Smti Anita Sowra, Complainant
2. Prosecution Witness No.2 - Sri Benjamin Hasapurty.
3. Prosecution Witness No.3 = Victim Miss X.
Exhibits.
Exhibit 1 - Ejahar

Exhibit 1(1) 2(1) Signatures of the complainant.

Exhibit 2 Be seizurelist.

Exhibit 2(2) ‘= Signature of \Benjamin Hasapurty.
Exhibit 3 - statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
Ext. 3(1) : Signature of the victim.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
