1|Page

IN THE COURT OF THE SESSIONS JUDGE,
KARBI ANGLONG, DIPHU, ASSAM.

Present Md. A.U.Ahmed, AJS
Special Judge, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.

Special Case No. 10 of 2018 corresponding
to GR Case No.432/2018 & Barpathar Police
Station Case No. 24/2018

Under Section 363 of IPC and U/S 4 of the
POCSO Act.

State of Assam
Versus
Shri Akash Mech
Name of informant/complainant:
Smti. Ujali Das Sarkar
Wife of Sri Ronti Sarkar
Vill-Thekrajan
PS-Barpathar
Dist-Karbi-Anglong
Name of the accused person facing trial:
Shri Akash Mech
S/O Late Lakshi Mech
Vill-Na-Singimarigaon
PS: Barpathar
District-Karbi Anglong.

Advocates appeared:

For the prosecution : Mr. D. Deka, Public Prosecutor
For the defense : Mrs R. Bharali
Argument heard on : 18.12.2018/21.12.18/07.01.2019

Judgment pronounced & delivered on: 21.12.2018/21.01.2019
2|Page

UDGMENT

1. It is a case of kidnapping and aggravated
penetrative sexual assault alleged to have been committed
by the accused person.

2. The prosecution case in brief is that on 30.4.2018,
the informant-Smti Ujali Das Sarkar lodged a written ejahar
at Barpathar Police Station stating inter alia that on the
Same day at about 4 PM, the accused Shri Akash Mech
kidnapped her victim daughter aged about 16 years from
her residence situated at Knakrajan under Barpathar Police
Station. On receipt of the ejahar, O/C, Borpathar Police
Station registered a case vide Borpathar Police Station
Case No.24 of 2018 under section 363 of IPC and started
investigation. During investigation the victim was
recovered from the possession of the accused. On
completion of investigation, 1.0. submitted the charge-
sheet under section 363 of IPC R/W Section 4 of the POCSO
Act against the accused Shri Akash Mech. Hence the

prosecution case.

3. On completion of appearance of the accused
person, this case was transferred to this Court as this case
needs to be tried by this court being Special Court under
POCSO Act. After renumbering the case, trial was started.
On completion of appearance of the accused person in this
Court, having very carefully gone through submissions of
learned lawyers of both sides as well as case diary, this
Court found sufficient grounds for presuming that the
accused person committed the offences under sections
363 of the IPC / 4 of the POCSO Act. Accordingly, the
charges were framed. The particulars of the offences
charged was duly read over and explained to the accused
person to which he pleaded not guilty and claimed to be
tried.
3|Page

4. During trial, Prosecution side has examined as
many as 7(seven) witnesses including the complainant and
alleged victim. The accused persons were recorded U/S
313 of Cr.P.C. Defence has examined none. Plea of defense
is of total denial.

5. Points for determination are:

(i) Whether the accused person on 30.4.2018 at about
4PM at Vill-Khakrajan under Barpathar Police Station
kidnapped the victim girl aged 16 years from the lawful
guardianship without his/her consent ?

(ii)Whether the accused person on the same date, time
and place caused aggravated penetrative sexual assault
towards the victim girl?

6. Decisions and reasons thereof:

| have very carefully gone through verbal arguments
advanced by the learned counsel of both sides as well as
evidence on record. At the very outset, the learned counsel
appearing on behalf of the accused person has contended
that the prosecution has miserably failed doubts to prove
its case . On the other hand, the learned Public Prosecutor,
Mr. D.K. Deka refuting the aforesaid submission has
submitted that the prosecution has succeeded in
establishing its case against the accused person beyond all
reasonable doubts. Prior to rebutting the rival submissions,
it would be appropriate to give a glance at evidence
record.
4|Page

ds

PW1- is Shri Roti Sarkar who has deposed in his
deposition that he knows the informant, the accused and
the victim girl. The incident occurred in the year 2018. On
the day of occurrence at about 4 PM, the victim went
missing from their house. The victim is his daughter. On
searching, they could know that the accused had
kidnapped her. At the time of occurrence, the victim was
16 years old. Knowing the fact of kidnapping his daughter,
they went to the house of the accused, but could not find
him. They got information that the accused kept the victim
hidden in a house at Da-hingimari area. Then they
informed the police about the fact of keeping his daughter.
We along with the police went to the place of keeping the
victim and met the accused and victim there. Police
brought the accused and the victim girl to the police
station and got the victim medically examined and the
statement of the victim recorded in the Court. Police seized
the admit card of the HSLC belonging to the victim along
with her birth certificate. Ext.1 is seizure list and Ext.1 (1)
is his signature. Later, police returned both the documents.

PW-2 is Smti Ujali Das Sarkar who is the informant of
this case. She has deposed in her deposition that the
victim is her daughter. She knows the accused person. The
incident occurred on 30.4.2018. She got acquainted with
the family of the accused in the matter of purchasing land.
Prior to the occurrence, the victim stayed few days in the
house of the accused under the care of the mother of the
accused. On 30" April at about 4-30 PM the victim went
out towards Shantipur. Thereafter, she searched the victim,
but she did not find any clue of her whereabouts. Then she
informed the fact of missing of her daughter to the sister-
in-law of the accused. Sister-in-law of the accused
5|Page

informed her that the accused took the victim away from
Santipur. She informed the matter to police. Police
gathered information from the sister-in-law of the accused
that they (accused and victim) were taking shelter in a
house about 2 KM away from her house. Then the police
along with her husband recovered their daughter along
with the accused at 12 midnight from that house and
brought them to the police station. She lodged a written
ejahar in this regard. On the next day, police got the victim
medically examined in Diphu Civil Hospital and her
statement recorded in the Court. Ext.2 is the ejahar and
Ext.2(1) is her signature. Police seized admit card of the
HSLC examination and the birth certificate belonging to
the victim. She put her signature in the seizure list marked
as (Ext.1). Ext.1(2) is her signature.

9. PW-3 is Shri Lakhindra Das who is a hearsay witness. He
is the driver of the vehicle belonging to Borpathar Police
Station. He has deposed in his deposition He knows the
informant and the alleged victim. He does not know the
accused. He only heard the fact of kidnapping the
daughter of the informant by the accused and the fact of
her recovery. At the time of occurrence, the victim was 15-
16 years old.

10. PW-4 is Smti. Junu Gogoi who is a hearsay witness. She
has stated in her evidence that the occurrence took place
in the month of "Bohag” of this year. Her house is situated
near the house of the victim. She came to know that in the
afternoon of the day of occurrence the victim went out
from the house for going to market but she did not come
home back. Later on she heard that the victim was
recovered from the house of the accused and that on the
day of the occurrence the accused forcibly made sexual

intercourse with the victim.
6|Page

11. PW-5 is the victim of this case who has deposed in her
testimony that the informant is her mother. She knows the
accused person. The incident took place at the time of
Bohag Bihu of this year. As per request of the mother of
the accused, her mother allowed her to be guest in the
house of the accused for two days. The accused has a
sister whose age appears to be same with her. After
staying two days in the house of the accused, she returned
to her house. One day, the accused met her at Shantipur
Bazar and asked her to go to his house. As she refused, the
accused told her that he took her photographs while she
was taking bath in their house on the last day of her stay
therein. The accused threatened her that he would upload
the photographs in the Facebook if she did not come to
their house with him. In fear, she went with him to their
house and requested him to delete those photographs. In
stead of complying her request the accused took her to his
uncle’s house on foot and they reached the uncle’s house
at 7 PM. At that time, the brother of the accused was also
there. When the accused and his brother came to know
that her mother informed the police, they wanted to
solemnize the marriage by putting vermilion (sindur) on
her forehead. The accused made intercourse with her
forcefully. On that very night, police came to the house of
the accused and apprehended him. Thereafter, police
brought her along with the accused to the police station.
The accused made intercourse with her once only. Police
got her medically examined and her statement recorded in
the Court. Ext.3 is her statement and Ext.3(1) and 3(2) are
her signatures. At the time of ocurrence, she was 16 years
old. Police seized her birth certificate and later handed
over to her. Her date of birth of is 14.01.2002.
7|Page

12. PW-6 is Dr. Karik Kropi who has deposed in the
deposition that on 02.5.2018 while she was working at
Diphu Civil Hospital she examined Smti.Priya Sarkar in
connection Borpathar Police Station Case No.24/2018. In
her examination, she did not find any injury mark on her
body. She also found hymen absent. According to X-ray
report, the age o the victim was below 18 (15-16) years. As
per laboratory examination, no spermatozoa was
detected. She opined that alleged history of sexual
intercourse was present. Ext.3 is the medical examination

report and Ext.3 (1) and 3(2) are her signatures.

13. PW-7 is Shri Padmeswar Saud who is the investigating
officer of this case. He has stated in his testimony that
during investigation, he drew the sketch, recorded the
statements of the witnesses, recovered the victim and
arrested the accused person. He also seized _ birth
certificate and the HSLC admit card of the victim.
Considering the statement of the victim, he prayed before
Court to add Sec.4 of the POCSO Act. Ext.5 is the birth
certificate of the victim and Ext.6 is the Admit Card of
HSLC of the victim. Ext.7 is the prayer made before the
Court for adding section 4 of the POCSO Act. On
completion of his investigation, he submitted charge-sheet
under sections 363 of IPC/ 4 of the POCSO Act against the
accused persons. Ext.8 is the charge-sheet and Ext. 8(1) is
his signature.

14. At first the court needs to know whether the victim is a
child or not. According to the section 2(d) of the POCSO
Act, any person below 18 years can be said to be a child.
Parents are the best persons who know actual age of their
child. PW-2 is the mother of the victim. According to her at
the time of occurrence, the victim was 16 years old. PW-1
8|Page

and PW-3 are neighbourers of the informant who have
categorically have stated in their evidence that the victim
was about 16 years old at the time of occurrence. The
victim herself supporting evidence of PW-1 to PW-3 has
stated that at the time of occurrence, she was 16 years.
PW-6 is the medical officer whose evidence also shows that
at the time of occurrence, the victim was below 18 years
(15 to 16). Ext-1 is seizure list by which Admit Card of
HSLC and Birth Certificate of the victim were seized. The
birth certificate marked as Ext-5 and HSLC Admit Card
marked as Ext-6 of the victim shows that her date of birth
is 14-01-2002. In view of the discussion made above it can
be held that at the time of occurrence the victim was
about 16 years old without any doubt. Hence it can be said
that the victim was child at the time of occurrence.

15. PW-1 and PW-2 have categorically stated in the
deposition that the police recovered the victim child from
the possession of the accused person. PW-7 is the
investigating officer who has clearly stated that he
recovered the victim and the accused from house of one
Rubul Boro. PW-5 is the victim who is the most vital
witness. Her evidence indicates that on the night of 30-04-
2018 the police recovered her along with the accused from
the house belonging to his uncle. Similarly evidence of the
informant shows that the victim was recovered from the
house belonging to uncle of the accused along with him.
The version of the defence as reflected is that the victim
herself fled away with the accused person on her sweet

will.

16. Ext-2 is the written ejahar which was lodged on 30-04-
2018 at 8-30 PM. From the case diary it appears that
statement of the victim was recorded on 01-05-2018 and
9|Page

the accused was shown arrested on 01-05-2018 at 4-30
PM. There is a contradiction date and time of recovery of
the victim. There is no dispute that the victim was
recovered from the possession of the accused. From the
cross-examination of the investigating officer it appears
that the victim fled away with the accused on her sweet
will. As | have already come to conclusion that at the time
of occurrence, the victim was minor, her consent is
immaterial. There is no evidence on record showing that
the accused took away the victim with consent of her legal
guardian.

17. From the evidence of the victim it appears also that the
accused forcibly made sexual intercourse with her in the
house of his uncle named Rubul Boro situated at
Dasingimari for one time. During investigation after
recovery, the victim was got medically examined. Ext-3 is
the medical report which shows that there was evidence of
absence hymen and that there was presence of evidence
of sexual intercourse. The statement of the victim was got
recorded under section 164 of the CrPC. The said
statement was got marked also as Ext-3. It shows that a
love affair was developed between the victim and the
accused and that out of love the victim fled away with the
accused person. It also shows that between them, physical
sexual relation took place. It is the established principle

that minor consent is regarded as no consent.

18.It is a case of aggravated penetrative sexual assault.
Before knowing about aggravated sexual assault we must
know first about penetrative sexual assault. It is defined
under section 3 of the POCSO Act which reads thus:-“3.
Penetrative sexual assault.-A person is said to commit
"penetrative sexual assault" if-a. he penetrates his
penis, to any extent, into the vagina, mouth, urethra or
10|Page

anus of a child or makes the child to do so with him or any
other person; or b. he inserts, to any extent, any object
or a part of the body, not being the penis, into the vagina,
the urethra or anus of the child or makes the child to do so
with him or any other person; or c. he manipulates any
part of the body of the child so as to cause penetration into
the vagina, urethra, anus or any part of body of the child
or makes the child to do so with him or any other person;
or d. he applies his mouth to the penis, vagina, anus,
urethra of the child or makes the child to do so to such
person or any other person.”

19.4.Punishment for penetrative sexual assault. - Whoever commits
penetrative sexual assault shall be punished with imprisonment
of either description for a term which shall not be less than seven

years but which may extend to imprisonment for life, and shall

also be liable to fine

20. In view of the discussion made above | find that the
prosecution has succeeded in establishing its case under
sections 363 of the IPC/4 of the POCSO Act against the
accused person.

ORDER
21. In the result, | find the accused person guilty under

sections 363 of the IPC/ 4 of the POCSO Act and
accordingly he is convicted.

22. On the point of sentence, the accused is heard and to
that effect, his statement was recorded.

23. It has been contended by the learned lawyer appearing
on behalf of the accused person that the accused person is
a just grown young man and his colorful life is waiting a
head and that his entire colorful life will be jeopardized if
he is put into bar for a period prescribed under section 4 of
the POCSO Act. She has further submitted that for the
reasons stated above, the court may extend leniency in
11|Page

sentencing the accused person. On the other hand, the
learned Public Prosecutor refuting the submissions
advanced by the learned defence counsel, has submitted
that the POCSO Act has been brought with some specific
objects and as such the accused is needed to be punished
as prescribed by law.

24.Regarding object of the POCSO Act, the Hon'ble Apex has
observed in case of Eera v. State (NCT of Delhi)
reported in “(2017) 15 SCC 133” thus :-“20. The
purpose of referring to the Statement of Objects and
Reasons and the Preamble of the Pocso Act is to appreciate
that the very purpose of bringing a legislation of the
present nature is to protect the children from the sexual
assault, harassment and exploitation, and to secure the
best interest of the child. On an avid and_ diligent
discernment of the Preamble, it is manifest that it
recognises the necessity of the right to privacy and
confidentiality of a child to be protected and respected by
every person by all means and through all stages of a
judicial process involving the child. Best interest and well-
being are regarded as being of paramount importance at
every stage to ensure the healthy physical, emotional,
intellectual and social development of the child. There is
also a stipulation that sexual exploitation and sexual abuse
are heinous offences and need to be effectively addressed.
The Statement of Objects and Reasons provides regard
being had to the constitutional mandate, to direct its policy
towards securing that the tender age of children is not
abused and their childhood is’ protected against
exploitation and they are given facilities to develop in a
healthy manner and in conditions of freedom and dignity.
There is also a mention which is quite significant that
12|Page

interest of the child, both as a victim as well as a witness,
needs to be protected. The stress is on providing child-
friendly procedure. Dignity of the child has been laid
immense emphasis in the scheme of legislation. Protection
and interest occupy the seminal place in the text of
the Pocso Act.”

25. In Surjit Singh Vs. Nahara Ram and others (2004)6
SCC 513=AIR 2004 SC 4122 it was held “The law
regulates social interests, arbitrates conflicting claims and
demands. Security of persons and property of the people is
an essential function of the State. It could be achieved
through instrumentality of criminal law. Undoubtedly there
is a cross-cultural conflict where living law must find
answer to new challenges and the courts are required to
mould the sentencing system to meet the challenges. The
contagion of lawlessness would undermine social order and
lay it in ruins. Protection of society and stamping out
criminal proclivity must be the object of law which must be
achieved by imposing appropriate sentence. Therefore,
laws as a corner stone of the edifice of ‘order’ should meet
the challenges confronting the society. In operating the
sentencing system, law should adopt the corrective
machinery or the deterrence based on factual matrix.
Therefore, undue sympathy to impose inadequate
sentence would do more harm to the justice system to
undermine the public system in the efficacy of law and
society could not long endure under such serious threats. It
is, therefore, the duty of every court to award proper
sentence having regard to the nature of the offence and
the manner in which it was executed or committed, etc.”

26. Taking all aspects into consideration | do hereby order the
accused Akash Mech to suffier RI of 6(Six) months for the
section 363 IPC and to suffer RI of 7 years and to pay fine
of Rs. 2000/- i/d SI of 6(Six) months for the Section 4 of the
13|Page

POCSO Act. Set off his earlier detention period. Let a
certified copy of this Judgment and order be supplied to
the accused person at free of cost. Let a copy of the
Judgment and Order be sent to the District Magistrate,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu in terms of section 365 of the CrPC.

27. Taking all aspects into consideration | do hereby
recommend an appropriate compensation to be awarded
by the DLSA, Karbi Anglong, Diphu under Victim
Compensation Scheme laid down in the section 357 A of
the CrPC. Accordingly DLSA, Karbi Anglong, Diphu is asked
to take steps accordingly. Let a copy of this Judgment and
order be sent to Secretary DLSA, Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
Accordingly this case is disposed of on contest.

28. Given under hand and seal of this court today, this the
21° day January, 2018.

Dictated and corrected by me.

Special Judge, Special
Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu. Karbi Anglong,
Diphu.

Dictation taken and
transcribed by me.

Stenographer Grade-l.
APPENDIX

Prosecution witnesses:
PW-1 = Shri Roti Sarkar
PW-2 = Smt. Ujjal Das Sarkar
14|Page

PW-3 = Shri Lakhindra Das
PW-4 =Smt. Junu Junu Gogoi
PW-5 = Miss Priya Sarkar
PW-6 = Dr. Karik Kropi

PW-7 = Sri. Podmeshwar Saut
Defence witnesses: Nil.

Prosecution exhibits:

Ext-1 = Search and Seizure Memo

Ext-2 = Written Ejahar

Ext-3 =Medical Report

Ext-4 =Sketch Map of PO.

Ext-5 = Birth Certificate

Ext-6 = HSLC Admit Card

Ext-7 =Prayer of the IO for adding Section 4 of
POCSO Act.

Special Judge,
Karbi Anglong, Diphu.
15|Page
