Page 1 of 13

IN THE COURT OF SPECIAL JUDGE, SONITPUR AT TEZPUR

SPECIAL (POCSO) CASE NO.

Present

Prosecutor

Accused

Date of framing Charge

Date of Recording Evidence

Date of examination of accused’ u/s
313 Cr.P.C.

Date of Argument

Date of Judgment
Counsel.for the Prosecution

Counsel for Accused

11 OF 2017

(Under Section 366(A) IPC read with
section u/s 4 of the POCSO Act, arising
out of G.R. Case No. 6002/16)

Sri Ashok Kumar Borah, AJS

Special Judge, Sonitpur
Tezpur

State of Assam

-“Vs-
Sri Bikash Mahatoo @ Babu
Son of Late Jakri Mahatoo
Resident of Baliati
Police Station — Jamuguri
Dist:- Sonitpur, Assam
04/07/2017
10/08/2017, 11/08/2017,
14/08/2017 & 06/09/2017.
06/09/2017

06/09/2017

06/09/2017

Mr. Munin Chandra Baruah
Public prosecutor
Sonitpur.

Mr. S. Borah , Advocate.

JUDGMENT

1. In this case accused Sri Bikash Mahatoo @ Babu is p is put for
trial for allegation of charge under Section 366(A) of the IPC read with

section 4 of the POCSO Act, 2012.

 
Page 2 of 13

2. The prosecution case according to the FIR in brief is that on or
about 8 p.m. of 22-12-2016 accused Bikash Mahatoo kidnapped his
minor daughter Miss X on the pretext of love her and kept her in a
secret place. Despite that in that kidnapping his younger brother Udan

Mahatoo also involved. Hence, this prosecution case.

3. The ejahar was filed by the informant Sri Prabin Yom before the
O/C of Jamuguri Police station. On receipt the same, Officer-In-Charge
of Jamuguri Police Station registered the case vide Jamuguri P.S. Case
No. 160/16 u/s 368 of IPC vide GDE No. 539 dated 23-12-2016. After
completion of usual investigation, the O/C Jamuguri Police Station filed
charge sheet u/s 366(A) of IPC r/w section 4 of the POCSO Act against
the accused Sri Bikash Mahatoo @ Babu.

4. On being appeared the accused before this Court, after hearing
both parties, I framed charge u/s 366(A) of IPC r/w section 4 of the
POCSO Act 2012 against the accused Sri Bikash Mahatoo @ Babu and
particulars of the charge“was read over, explained to the accused to

which he pleads not guilty.and claims to be tried.

5. To substantiate*the case, prosecution has examined as many as
8 numbers of witnesses. The case is remained for examination of the
1.0. After completion of said 8 numbers of witnesses, learned counsel
for the ‘accused submitted to close the evidence on the ground that the
complainant and victim no way supported the prosecution case. Besides,
the statement of the victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. reveals that the
victim has eloped with the accused at her own will, therefore, it would
be futile to examine the I.O. Even if examined the I.0. prosecution case

would not develop.
6. I have heard the learned Public Prosecutor, Sonitpur, Tezpur.

ai On perusal of the statement of the aforesaid witnesses recorded
so far and the materials on the record, I think that prosecution case
would not develop even if examined the other witnesses. Speedy trial is

the right of the accused person. Considering all these aspects,

 
Page 3 of 13

prosecution evidence is closed. Accused is examined u/s 313 Cr.P.C. All
the allegations made against the accused and evidence appears against
the accused are put before him for his explanation where he denied the

allegations and declined to adduce defence evidence.

8. I have heard the argument put forward by the learned counsels
of both sides.

9. The points for decision in this case is that —

(1) "Whether the accused on or about 8 p.m. of
22-12-2016 at Hatinga Rampur under_Jamuguri
P.S., induced Miss X, a minor girl under the age of
18 years, to go from her house orto do any act or
acts with the intent that said Miss X may be ( or
knowing that it is likely that.said Miss X will be)
forced (or seduced) to-illicit,intercourse with you
and thereby committed.an offence punishable U/S

366(A) of the Indian Penal Code ?

(2) “Whether onthe same date, time and place, the
accused.committed penetrative sexual assault on "Miss X”
(victim)“and thereby committed an offence punishable
under section 4 of the Protection of Child from Sexual
Offences Act?

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

10.) Tovarrive at the judicial decision, let me appreciate the evidence

on record.

11. PW 1 Sri Probin Yom who is the father and complainant of this
case, stated that he knows accused Bikash Mahatoo. He filed the ejahar
Ext.1 and Ext. 1(1) is his signature. At the time of incident, her age was
only 15 years. The incident took place before the examination of HSLC,
2016. The victim was preparing for her HSLC examination. At the
relevant time, he was in outside. His wife informed him over phone that
his daughter/victim was missing from his home. He immediately came
back home. They searched her vigorously throughout night, but could

not find her. Accused during that time was doing mason works in his

 
Page 4 of 13

home. Therefore, they suspected him for kidnapping of his daughter.
Thereafter, on the next date, he filed the ejahar before police station.
After three days the police informed that the victim was found with the
accused. So, both are recovered and took to the police Station. In the
next day, police took the victim for medical examination and then took
her to the Court for recording her statement. After recording her
statement, the victim was handed over to them. The victim told that

accused threatened her and took her forcefully with him.

In cross-examination, he admitted that he came to»know about
the incident only after informing by his wife. The house‘of the accused
is at a distance of 1 %2 km from his house. He cannot’recall the exact
date of incident. The ejahar was written by.one scribe Gitali Haloi. The

scribe has read over the FIR to him. Police recorded his statement.

12. PW 2, Smt. Queen Yom, mother of the victim, stated that she
knows accused Bikash Mahatoo.) At the time of incident, her
daguther’s/victim’s age was only 15 years. The incident took place on
22-12-2016. They have two daughters i.e. the victim and another one.
At the relevant time, she was taking some rest. When she went to
kitchen, she finds in the kitchen the veg was in cooking, but, no one is
there. Accordingly, she searched her daughters. She asked her younger
daughter Kaberi about the victim, but, she told that she went to meet
nature’s call. Thereafter, she ring her victim daughter, but, she did not
find. her and then she informed the matter to her husband over phone.
They have vigorously searched her throughout the night but, could not
find her. So, her husband filed this case in the next day of the incident.
Thereafter police recovered her daughter from Khonamukh along with
the accused after about three days of the incident. Then she went to
police station. She met her daughter in the police station and when she
asked her she told that accused threatened her to kill and forcibly
kidnapped her. Her daughter also told that he will also kill them.
Accused also threatened her that he will publish her photo in face book.

Thereafter, police took her daughter for medical examination and also

 
Page 5 of 13

to the Court for recording her statement through Magistrate. After

recording her statement, victim girl was given custody to them.

In cross-examination she admitted that after the birth of her
victim daughter they prepared her “Janmakusti”. She has not submitted
the said “Janmakusti” to IO. Police recorded her statement. At the time
of incident, in her home she herself, her elder sister, her younger
daughter Nisita and Kaberi was there. At the surrounding of her home
our families are there. At the time of incident she was taking rest at
about 7/7.30 PM and during that time no other persons were visited in
their home. Before recovery of her daughter, she did not know where
her daughter has been gone. She does not know had:any love affairs in
between the accused and her daughter. Accused resides at Bali-ati
village. She knows that her daughter<was recovered from a village
Khonamukh, but, she did not know from whose house her daughter was
recovered by police. She doesnot know during that time where her

daughter was staying.

13. PW 3 Sri Polin Yom stated that he knows accused Bikash
Mahatoo who is doing as a mason. Complainant is his uncle. The victim
is his cousin. The incident took place on 22-12-2016. On that day in the
evening time, complainant/uncle informed him that his daughter/victim
was missing.” They vigorously searched her throughout the night, but,
they.could not find her. Then in the next morning, his uncle lodged the
ejahar. After about three days, police recovered his cousin along with
the accused. When police informed about the said recovery, they went
to the police station and saw the victim as well as the accused in the
police station. Thereafter, police took the victim for medical examination
and then to the Court for recording her statement. After recording her
statement through Magistrate, the victim girl was given custody to her
mother. While he asked his uncle/complainant he told him that his
daughter informed him that accused has forcefully kidnapped her. Police

recorded his statement.

 
Page 6 of 13

In cross-examination he stated that his house is situated at a
distance of 200/300 meter from the house of complainant. Prasanta
Yom resides just adjacent to the house of complainant and the next plot
owned by Ranjit Yom and on the other sides of the road there are
paddy field. At first he came to know the incident from his uncle and
thereafter, the victim informed him that accused forcefully took her with
him. The victim stated before him about the incident at the police

station, immediately after her recovery.

14. PW 4, the victim Miss X stated before the court that.on or about
8 p.m. of 22-12-2016 her mother was taken rest after thrashing paddy.
She and her younger sister Mili were preparing meal».She went out for
bath room. She could not think that accused: was standing near the bath
room and he caught her and took her to Tupia) The accused threatened
her if she raised alarm she would be killed and even threat to defame
her by publishing false story.;In the earlier occasion also accused
disturbed her while she went to.tuition. As she was afraid so she did not
attempt to flee away from the motor cycle. Accused took her to a house
belongs to Missing Community at Khanamukh. He forcefully asked her
to marry him. Accused’ made physical relation with her forcefully. She
was kept in the ‘said house for three days in a room with him. Police
recovered “herr Thereafter she was examined medically and her
statement was also recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. Ext. 2 is her statement and
Ext. 2(1) to 2(3) are her signatures. After her recovery she reported

about the whole story to her parents, police and Magistrate.

In cross-examination, she admitted that she is a student of first
year of Higher Secondary school. Her house was surrounded by wall.
Though there was electricity connection but during that time there was
no current. She was not aware that accused was standing near the bath

room.

15. PW 5 Mrs Jyotishmita Sarmah deposed that on 28-12-2016 she
was posted at Tezpur as Judicial Magistrate, 1° class, Tezpur. On that

day, in reference to Jamuguri Police station case No. 160/16 under

 
Page 7 of 13

Section 366(A) of the IPC., she has examined one witness i.e. the victim
namely, Miss X, D/O Sri Prabin Yom, wife of Bikash Mahatoo, resident of
village Hatinga, Rampur under Jamuguri PS, a student of class-X. She
has recorded her statement u/s 164 Cr.P.C at her court chamber. At the
time of recording her statement, other than her, none was present. The
victim made statement voluntarily and after recording her statement,
she read over the contents of the statement and on satisfaction, she put
signature thereon. Ext. 2 is the statement of the victim and Ext. 2(1) to

2(3) are the signatures of victim and Ext. 2(4) is her signature:

16. PW 6 Dr. Jharna Kakoti stated that on 29-12-2016 she was
working as Sub-Divisional Medical & Health Officer,insthe Kanaklata Civil
Hospital, Tezpur and on that day she was on duty in the hospital and at
about 1.30 p.m., she examined Miss X, 45 ‘years, female D/O Sri Prabin
Yom of village Hatinga Rampur PS —Jamuguri, Dist. Sonitpur, in
reference to Jamuguri PS CaseyNO. 160/16 u/s 368 of IPC, on being
escorted and identified by WPC€ 699 Dipti Chetry, on the examination
room of labour room complex of KCH, vide Hospital registration No.
28371/16, in presence_of GNM Manika Dutta of KCH and found the

following:

Identification mark — mole on left upper part of back of chest.
Consent for examination taken from the girl as well as from mother
Queen Yom. Menstrual history — LMP — 17/12/2016 regular. History of
sexual exposure on 23-12-2016 and 24-12-2016. Height — 150.3 cm,
Weight — 40 Kg, Teeth — 14/14.At the time of examination she was well
dressed, neat and tidy. Gait normal. Built average. Her secondary sexual
characters developed. Vulva, vagina healthy, hymen absent. There was
no injury marks of violence on her body as well as on her body as well
as on her private parts. Vaginal smear for spermatozoa was taken.
Investigations advised and reports-

Vaginal smear for spermatozoa- No sperm (done at KCH Lab No.
136/16.

 
Page 8 of 13

2. Urine for HCG — negative. (done at Assam X-ray Clinic &
Lab, Tezpur on 29-12-2016. ID NO. 31206 by Dr. D. Mahanta,
Pathologist.

3. X-ray of wrist joint, elbow joint and iliac crest for age
determination. (i) Union of the epiphysis of the lower ends of radius
and ulna are complete. iii) All Epiphysis of the bones around the elbow
joints have fused. iv) Epiphysis of the iliac crest has appeared but not
fused.(done at Assam X-ray Clinic & Lab, Tezpur on 29-12-2016. Patient
ID NO. AXC 32 by Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist.

Impression: Age of the person under investigation is appears

to be over 18 years.

4. Ultra Sonography of pelvis — Normal*uterus in size, shape and
outlines. Measures 9.3 x 5.1 x 3.8 cms in length, breadth and thickness.
The myometrium and andemetrium are normal. Thickness of
endometrium 7.4 mm. Both ovaries are normal in size, shape and
echotexures - Normal pelvic organs with non gravid uterus. (done at
Assam X-ray Clinic & Lab, Tezpur on 29-12-2016. Patient ID NO. AXC 32
by Dr. P.K. Barman, Sonologist.

OPINION:

1. Age of the person under investigation appears to
be over 18 years.

2. There is no sign and symptoms of recent sexual
intercourse at the time of examination.

3. There is no injury or marks of violence on her
body as well as on her private parts.

4. She is not pregnant at the time of examination.

Ext. 3 is the Medical report and Ext. 3(1) and 3(2) are her
signatures. Ext. 4 is the X-ray and USG reports with film and Ext. 4(1) is
the signature of Dr. P.K. Barman, Radiologist which she knows. Ext. 5 is
the report of Urine for HCG and Ext. 5(1) is the signature of Dr. D.
Mahanta, Pathologist, which she knows. Ext. 6 is the vaginal smear
report of KCH and Ext. 6(1) is the signature of laboratory technician of
KCH, Tezpur. Ext. 7 is the advice slip and Ext. 7(1) is her signature.

 
Page 9 of 13

17. PW 7 Smt. Namita Baruah, stated that she knows the accused
Bikash Mahato. She also knows the complainant Prabin Yom. The victim
is her niece. The incident took place in the month of December, 2016.
On the day of incident, after coming from the paddy field she become
exhausted so she went to the kitchen and found that her niece was not
there. In the next day, the complainant filed this case before the police
station. Police recovered the girl. She came to know that she was
recovered with the boy present in the dock. Thereafter she came to
know that the boy who was doing works in the house™of the

complainant took the victim girl.

In cross-examination she admitted that at.the-relevant time in
the house of complainant four persons were.present which including
herself, victim, sister of the victim and mother of the victim. At the time
of cooking victim’s younger sister was also) present with her. When she
entered into the kitchen she found only the sister of Nilakhi. She does
not know where the victim went. She does not know from which place

or which possession the.victim Was recovered by police.

18. PW 8 Sri Apurba Yom stated that he knows the accused Bikash
Mahato. Complainant is his brother. The victim is his niece. The incident
took place in the last Christmas time. On the day of incident his brother
Prabin Yom called him and informed him that his victim daughter was
missing. They searched vigorously her but did not find her. Thereafter,
hisbrother filed this case. Next day, police recovered his niece along
with the accused Bikash Mahato. Then he came to know that the
accused had taken away his niece. Accused Bikash Mahato was doing

works in the house of the complainant as mason.

In cross-examination, he admitted that he has no personal
knowledge about the incident. He does not know from which place or

which possession the victim was recovered by police.

19. These much is the evidence of the prosecution case.

 
Page 10 of 13

20. While the statement of the accused was recorded he denied all

the allegations and evidence made against him.

21. Learned counsel for the accused submitted that the statement
made by the victim before this court is totally contradicted as she stated
u/s 161 Cr.P.C. and also u/s 164 Cr,.P.C.

22. On close scrutiny of the statement of the victim recorded u/s
164 Cr.P.C it appears that she stated to learned Magistrate that-at the
time of recording her statement she was 15 years 11 months. She
knows the accused for last six months as he was doing\carpenter in
their house. Accused gave proposal that he. loved; her. He also
threatened that he will defame her name/before her friends and
therefore she given yes to his proposal. She never think that she was sit
in marriage with the accused but she stated™‘yes” to the accused. On
being came to know about here relation with the accused, her parents
assaulted her and asked her to leave the accused. Then out of fear she
herself eloped with the accused: Accused took her from the site of
bathroom. Initially, she was taken to a house of Adibasi at Tupia on 22-
12-2016. In the next day she was taken to Khanamukh in a house of a
person belong.to Missing community where she performed marriage
with the accused. They remained there for 2/3 days as a husband and
wife and consummated. Then police recovered her. She against stated
that.Bikash has taken her. Other than Bikash she has not contacted any
physical relation with any person. She has also stated that she admitted
her mistake and wants to reform It is interesting to note that while
learned Magistrate recorded her statement she stated that she is the
wife of Bikash Mahtoo. Besides, in her statement she clearly stated that
she performed marriage with the accused and thereafter cohabits with
the accused as husband and wife. Now, the question comes if the
accused forcibly taken her without her willingness she must have raised
alarm while she was alleged to be taken by the accused from her house
to the road. But she did not raise any alarm not protest. Secondly while

she was taken in the motor cycle to Tupia she raised no alarm though in

 
Page 11 of 13

court she has stated that as the accused threatened her so she did not
raise protest. However, it also appears that there is no evidence that in
the house of Adibasi person where she was kept for the first day she
raised no alarm neither informed about the alleged kidnapping to any
family members of the person of Adibashi. There is no any evidence
that after Tupia she was taken to a village Khanamukh and kept her in a
house of one person belongs to Missing community. There is no any
evidence that she raised alarm neither reported or complained anything
to any member of the said family of Missing Community. Besides; there
is no any evidence that she has been continuously kept in atocked room
neither at a gun point so that she cannot fled away from the house of
said person of Missing Community. Rather there is, ayclear evidence that
she did not make any attempt to flee away.from the clutches of the
accused person. On the other hand, ‘she clearly stated that she
consummated marriage with the accused at Khanamukh and thereafter
lived with the accused as husband and wife for two days. Even it is a
fact that while her statement was recorded by learned Magistrate the
victim stated to the,learned magistrate that she is the wife of the
accused Bikash Mahatoo. Under such circumstances, the alleged forceful

kidnapping of the victim has not been proved.

23. Another question is to be discussed in the present case is —
about, the age of the victim at the relevant point of time. According to
the statement of the victim recorded u/s 164 Cr.P.C. she was 15 years
of age at the relevant point o time and according to her deposition
made before this cour on 11-08-2017 she was 16 years of age.
According to Dr. J. Kakoti, PW 6, the age of the victim appears to be
over 18 years and it was argued by the learned counsel for the accused
while relying upon the Judgment of Hon'ble Supreme Court titled as Jai
Mala Vs. Home Secretary, Govt. of Jammu and Kashmir and
others AIR 1982 SC 1297 wherein it has been observed by Hon’ble
Supreme Court that margin of error in age ascertained by radiological
examination two years on either side. Relying on the said Judgment

learned counsel for the accused argued that if the margin of + 2 years

 
Page 12 of 13

is taken in case of prosecutrix, certainly it cannot be said that she was
minor on the date of the alleged incident. In the instant case according
to the doctor, the victim was over 18 years

24. Another point is to be considered in the present case is that the
doctor opined that there is no sign and symptoms of recent sexual
intercourse at the time of examination and there is no injury or marks of

violence on her body as well as on her private parts.

25. It is a fact that a forceful rape upon a teenage girl she might
have receives injury atleast on her private parts but heresin this case
neither the victim nor the doctor stated that due to. said forceful

intercourse by the accused, she sustained injury on,her-private parts.

26. In view of the aforesaid reasons, the solitary evidence of the
victim even to be not cogent, reliable to ‘convict the accused in any of
the charged section. As such, I do‘not have any hesitation to acquit the

accused on benefit of doubt and .set him at liberty.
27. Liabilities of the bailoris‘also hereby discharged.
28. Send backthe LCR.

Given under my Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 6™ day
of September,-2017.

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
Dictated and corrected by me

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE,
SONITPUR :: TEZPUR

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno

 
NG) bl gs et Bo

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4
Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7
Prosecution Witness No.8

Exhibit 1
Exhibit 2
Exhibit 3,4,5,6

Exhibit 7

Page 13 of 13

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

- Sri Probin Yom,Complainant

i- Smt. Queen Yom

i= Sri Polin Yom

I Victim

'- Mrs. J. Sarmah, SDJM(S), Jorhat.
‘= Dr. J. Kakoti, M.O.

Smt. Namita Baruah

= Sri Apurba Yom.

Exhibits.
Ejahar
164 Cr.P.C. statement of the victim.

Medical; report, X-ray and USG report,
Urine’report and Vaginal smear report.

Advice slip

(Ashok Kumar Borah)
SPECIAL JUDGE
SONITPUR : TEZPUR
