  

resent : Shri C. Das,

 

Judge, Special Court,
Baksa, Mushalpur

JUDGMENT IN SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO.10/2018
u/s 366 IPC r/w Section 4 of POCSO Act

State
versus-

Md. Akkash Ali

sales Accused

Appearance :
Forthe State :Mr.R. Chetry, Public Prosecutor, Baksa

For the accused : Mr. T. Sharma, Advocate

Date of evidence : 19/4/17, 7/6/17, 11/7/17, 19/9/17, 3/5/18, 27/6/18
Date of argument: 5/9/18
Date of judgment : 18/9/18

JUDGMENT

t The case of the prosecution briefly, is that on 4/2/16, the

complainant Smti. Dayamanti Kalita lodged a FIR before the Officer-in-charge of

Goreswar police station, alleging inter-alias that on 3/2/16 at about 5-30 pm., her

daughter/ victim while proceeding towards her aunt's house, in the mid way, the
accused came on a bike and kidnapped her daughter by gagging her mouth. The

wage Spl. Court accused committed rape on the victim by keeping her in his relative's house.
oat Mushalpur Thereafter, the accused left the victim in unwell condition in the morning of next

day near her house. She came to know about the occurrence from the victim girl.

2. The police accordingly, registered the Gobardhana PS. Case
 

place of occurrence, recorded the statement of the victim and other witnesses and

sent the victim girl for medical examination. At the end of the investigation, the I/O
having found a prima-facie case well established, submitted the charge-sheet

against the accused to face trial in the court.

3. The accused, when appeared in the court in response to issue of
process against him, was furnished with the relevant copy of the case. After hearing
of both the parties and on perusing the material on record, the charge u/s 366 IPC
r/w section 4 of Protection of Children from Sexual Offences Act, 2012 (herein
after referred as the POCSO Act) framed against the accused. The charge so
framed, was read over and explained to the accused who pleaded not guilty and

claimed to be tried.

4. The prosecution during the trial, examined as many as, seven(7)
witnesses including the M/O andl/O to support its case. Thereafter, in the
statement recorded u/s 313 CrPC., the accused denied all accusations so appeared
against him in the evidence on record. The accused declined to adduce any

evidence. The argument of the parties was heard at length.

>. POINTS FOR DETERMINATION :

i) Whether on 3/2/16 at village- Deosunga under Goreswar police station,
kidnapped the victim (mame is witheld) , daughter of informant with intent to
compel her to marry and For illicit sexual intercourse with any person;

ii) Whether on same date, time and place as above, the accused committed

penetrative sexual assault upon the minor victim girl, daughter of the informant ;

DICISION AND REASON THEREFORE :

6. At the outset,learned Public Prosecutor submitted streneously that
the evidence of the prosecution witnesses is sufficient enough to bring home the
charge against the accused. He submitted that the offence is committed against
the victim who is a minor girl. He submitted Further that the evidence on record
clearly discloses that the accused after kidnapping the victim girl, committed
penetrative sexual assault upon her and there may be elements of knowing the
accused for long time by the victim girl but that does not indicate that the victim

had the consent to do the same act with the accused while the consent of the
 

judge
Bake?

Spl. Court
Mushalet

is liable to be punished as per law, he maintained.

uf Per contra, learned counsel for the accused vehemently submitted
that there is no such reliable evidence of the witnesses of the prosecution to based
a conviction against the accused. He submitted that there was no eye-witness of
the occurrence and all the witnesses of the prosecution are heresay type except
the victim girl. He pointed out the evidence of the victim that her evidence even
though, is vital for the prosecution, it does not corroborate anything of the
prosecution story. The evidence of the victim if perused, it would make clear that
she does not implicate the accused in the alleged occurrence. Hence, it creates
doubt over the prosecution case. Accordingly, he urged to acquit the accused on
the basis of benefit of doubt. He relied the decision reported in (1976) 4 SCC 233
Rabindra Kumar Dey vs. State of Orissa, wherein, it was held that in our opinion
three cardinal priciples of criminal jurisprudence are well-settled, namely :

1] that the onus lies affirmatively on the prosecution to prove its
case beyond reasonable doubt and it cannot derive any benefit from
weakness or Falsity of the defence version while proving its case ;

2] that in a criminal trial the accused must be presumed to be
innocent unless he is proved to be guilty ; and

3] that the onus of the prosecution never shifts.

8. Relying on the above law laid down, learned counsel for the accused
submitted that while all other witnesses are even though hearsay type of
witnesses, supported the fact that it was the accused who kidnapped the victim
and he committed sexual intercourse with the victim who is a minor girl at the
relevant time of occurrence, it appears that the victim totally denied such
allegation against the accused and as such, when the victim who is the vital witness
of the prosecution, does not support the prosecution story, it cannot be held that
the prosecution has able to prove its case against the accused beyond reasonable
doubt. Hence the prosecution could not remove the fact of presuming that the

accused is innocent.

9. Learned counsel for the accused further submitted that from the
evidence of the victim, it is confirmed that there is total contradictory version come
from the mouth of her which renderes that the prosecution case unreliable and
shrouded by doubt. He relied the decision reported in AIR 1957 SC 637 Harbans
Singh Bhan Singh vs. The State of Punjab wherein it was observed that it is no
 

Judge SP

doubt a matted of regret that a Foul cold-blooded and cruel murder should
go unpunished. There may also be an element of truth in the prosecution
story against the accused. Considered as a whole, the prosecution story may
be true, but between 'may be true’ and 'must be true’ there is inevitably a
long distances to travel and the whole of this distance must be covered by
the prosecution by legal, reliable and unimpeachable evidence before an

accused can be convicted.

10. He submitted that From the evidence of the victim, it appears that
there are two views come from the evidence of the prosecution witnesses and
thus, the principle of law is that view favours the accused, must be adopted. He
placed reliance on the decision reported in (1973) 2 SSC 808 Kali Ram vs. State of
Himachal Pradesh wherein, another golden thread which runs through the web of
the administration of justice in criminal cases is that if two views are
possible on the evidence adduced in the case, one pointing to the guilt of
the accused and the other to his innocence, the view which is favourable to
the accused should be adopted. This principle has a speical relevance in
cases wherein the guilt of the accused is sought to be established by
circumstantial evidence. Rule has accordingly been laid down that unless
the evidence adduced in the case is consistent only with the hypothesis of
the guilt of the accused and is inconsistent with that his innocence, the
court should refrain from recording a Finding of guilt of the accused. It is
also an accepted rule that in case the court entertains reasonable doubt
regarding the quilt of the accused, the accused must have the benefit of
that doubt. Of course, the doubt regarding the guilt of the accused should
be reasonable; it is not the doubt of a mind which is either so vacillating
that it is incapable of reaching a firm conclusion or so timid that it is
hesitant and afraid to take things to their natural consequences. The rule
regarding the benefit of doubt also does not warrant acquittal of the
accused by report to surmises, conjectures or fanciful consideration. It
needs all the same to be re-emphasised that if a reasonable doubt arises
regarding the guilt of the accused, the benefit of that cannot be withheld

From the accused.

\, Court Tt After hearing the above submissions of the parties, it would be
Mushalpur proper to place on record, the evidence so tendered by the prosecution witnesses.
The prosecution examined the informant of the case as PW1. It appears that PW1

Smti. Daymanti Kalita is the mother of the victim girl who was 14 years of age at the
  

Sane relevant time. PW1 deposed in the court that on the fateful day, in the evening, the
victim was missing from the house. The victim went to her aunt's place but on the
way, the victim disappeared. She searched for the victim girl but could not trace out
and as such, she reported it before the police. But on the next day, morning the
victim arrived at her home. On her inquiry, the victim reported her that the accused
took the victim on a motor-cycle and stayed with her in a house of his relative
where the accused committed sexual intercourse with the victim at night. Hence
she went to the police station. The police after inquired about the incident from
her, sent the victim For medical examination and gave her the custody of the victim.
She Filed the ejahar vide Ext.1 and she proved the same.

12. In the cross-examination, PW1 stated that the victim was in class-IX
at the relevant time. She was absent at her home on the fateful day. Apparently,

the evidence of PW1 is based on the report of the victim.

13. PW2 Sri Dilip Deka stated inter-alia that one day, at about 5 am., he
heard the sound of a bike and the accused rode the bike. After 10 minutes later, he
heard hue and cry and as scuh, he proceeded near and he saw gathering of public.
The victim was weeping. According to PW2, the mother of the victim was absent.
The victim informed the public that the accused picked her up from the road ona
motor-bike in the evening and thereafter, the accused kept her in a house and
committed rape on her. The local youth went to apprhend the accused. He could

not say if there was any relation between the accused and the victim.

14, In the cross-examination, PW2 stated that he saw the accused in the
morning. He did not Find PW1. Apparently, the evidence of PW1 is corroborated by
PW2. But like PW1, he was also, a reported witness of the occurrence. However, his
evidence discloses that the accused came on a bike on the next day morning near
to the house of PW1.

15. PW3 is the victim girl( her name is witheld ). Her evidence is

important as far as the prosecution case is concerned. She stated that her date of

birth as per her mother is 19th September 1999. she used to visit cloth store of the

accused for the last 3/4 years. According to her, in this way, her love affairs was
on Spl. Court grown through phone with the accused. The love affairs between her with the
Jv

am annehalo’accused was continued for two years. At present, she still loved the accused. On the
gak$2. 0" sa
coy fateful day, the accused came on a bike. Since she was talking to the accused, local

villagers reported the same to her mother. Hence on the inquiry of her mother, she
  

S
~

oS

disclosed that she fell in love with the accused. The accused was a Muslim person
and as such, her mother and uncle did not accept the accused and therefore, filed
the case. She stated that the accused did not take her. As per instruction of her
mother, she told that the accused took her. According to her, the accused did not
commit any sexual intercourse with her and the accused did not take her away. She
still has the impression to marry the accused. She was not tutored by anybody in
the court.

16. PW3 was thoroughly cross-examined by the defence but nothing
could be illsited in favour of the prosecution. Thus, it appears from the above

evidence that the victim does not support the prosecution story.

17. The evidence of PW4 Sri Ramen Kalita is that on the fateful day,
while he was in his home in the evening at about 6.30 pm., the victim was missing.
The victim was 15 years of age at the time of occurrence. He went in search of the
victim but could not trace her out. He was informed that on the next day, the victim
returned to her home. On his inquiry, the victim told her that the accused took her
to the house of aunt of the accused. The accused committed sexual intercourse
with her Forcibly at night. He stated that PW2 saw the accused dropping the victim.
He is the uncle of the victim who was studied in class-Vill at the relevant time. Thus

the evidence of PW4 is contradictory to the version of the victim.

18. PWS Md. Intaz Ali deposed that he heard hue and cry in the house of
one Ishahaque that the accused brought the daughter of PW1 to the house. The
accused kept the victim in the house of Ishahaque Ali for one night. Apparently, the
evidence of PWS does not lend support to PW3.

19. PW6 Dr. Dipti Choudhury is the medical officer who examined the
victim medically. She stated that during her examination, she did not find any
bodily injury or in the private part of the victim. But her hymen was torn. The uterus
was retroverted and the bvagina admitted two Fingers. The vaginal swabs were
sent for laboratory test for sperm but no sperm was seen. As per radiological
report, the estimated age of the victim was below 18 years but above q6 years. She
Filed her report vide Ext.3. The I/O of the case supported the fact that PW6
examined the victim medically. Thus the medical evidence lends no support to the

prosecution case.

20. The evidence of I/O vide PW7 Sri Nayanmoni Das is that on the
  

fateful day, while he was at Goreswar police station, the I/C of Swagpur Out post
sent PW1 with the victim with a FIR vide Ext.1. Accordingly, he registered a case
and took up the investigation of the case. He sent the victim for medical
examination. He went to the place of occurrence, drew a skatch map thereof vide
Ext.4. He examined the witnesses and visited the house of the accused in search of
him. He Found that the house where the offence was committed, was in abondoned
condition without any occupant. At the end he filed the charge-sheet against the
accused vide Ext.5.

ai. Apparently, From the evidence of the prosecution witnesses so
tendered in the case, it appears that PW1 is corroborated by PW2 and 4. The
evidence of PWS also, supported the fact that the accused brought the victim with
him to the house of a relative of the accused and kept her for one night. According
to PW1, 2 and 4, they heard that the accused took the victim ona bike and keptina
house and committed sexual intercourse with her at night and on next morning, the
accused dropped the victim near her house from the mouth of the victim. The
evidence of PW2 discloses that he heard sound of a bike and saw the accused was
moving away. But he never stated that the accused dropped the victim girl on a
bike near her house. He also, saw the victim weeping after few minutes later. That
does not indicate that the accused brought the victim near to her house. Thus such
evidence is not sufficient to accept that the accused dropped the victim on a bike
on the next day of her missing from the house. It appears that the evidence of PW1,
2 and 4 are herasay and reported the incident by the victim. Apparently, whatever,
was heard by PW1, 2 and 4 is contradicted by the victim. As such, their evidence
appears to be not reliable and convincing to believe. Further, their evidence is not
reliable to accept immediately unless corroborated by the evidence of PW3 who is

main witness of the alleged occurrence.

22. So far as, the victim vide PW3 is concerned, it appears that she
totally contradicted the said version of PW1, 2 and 4. It appears From the evidence
of PW3 that she had love affairs with the accused For a considerable period of time
before the alleged occurrence. In view of that it is possible that PW3 might have
missing From her home without informing others to visit the accused. Further, the
evidence of PW3 discloses that it is true that the accused came with a bike to her

ou
\ OP purvillage and had some talk with her which was reported to PW1. Hence she reveals

that she is in love with the accused. But the barrier was the religion which is
different from each other and that was reason PW’1 filed the case. PW3 denies that

she was not kidmapped by the accused neither she was raped by the accused.
Uy -

cs s
~ A ~

\¥ a"
art”
er

“Apparently, the victim girl is Found to be quite matured enough to understand the

<=
- c ,
oo: 8
;

Me

consequences and effect of the act of kidnapping and rape. Since she did not
implicate the accused for her kidnapping and rape, it shourds doubt over the
veracity of the claim of PW1 that her daughter was kidnapped and than raped by
the accused. Hence the accused is entitled to get the benefit of such doubt.

Accordingly, the accused is given benefit of doubt.

a3: Under the above facts and circumstances of the case, it isfound that
the prosecution has not able to prove its case against the accused beyond all
reasonable doubt. Accordingly, the accused is held not guilty u/s u/s 366 IPC r/w
Section 4 of POCSO Act. The accused is therefore, acquitted and set at liberty. His
bail bond is however, allowed to remain in force for another 6 months u/s 437-A
CrPC. The victim is recommanded to get compensation under Assam Victim
Compensation Scheme. Forward a copy of judgment to the District Magistrate,
Baksa, Mushalpur.

24. Given under the hand and seal of this court on this 18th day of
September, 2018.

Dictated & Corrected by :

C. Das, .

Judge, Special Court, "S8Gg8 Sp. Court,

. Court
SR Rina Baka Ws tpur

Typed by:
P. Deka, Com. Typist
 

ANNEXURE:

List of prosecution witness:

PW1

... smti. Dayamanti Kalita ... informant
PW2 ...
PW3 ..
PW4...
PWS...
PW6..
PW7 ...

Sri Dilip Deka

. The victim girl

Sri Ramen Kalita
Md. Intaz Ali

. Dr. Dipti Choudhury ... m/o

Sri Nayanmoni Das ... i/o

List of defence witness:

Nil

List of documents exhibited :

Ext.1 5
Ext.2
Exo
Ext.4..
ExLS x

Judge, Speci

eH.

ejahar
victim's statement u/s 164 CrPC

medical report

. sketch map

charge-sheet

ourt,
