Page 1 of 11

IN THE COURT OF THE SPECIAL JUDGE SONITPUR:: TEZPUR

SPECIAL POCSO CASE NO. 42 of 2017
Under section 4 of POCSO Act.
(Arising out of G. R Case No. 3066 of 2017)

State of Assam

—Vs—
Sri Jogeswar Orang @ Pilu Orang ... Accused Person

Present: SmtiI. Barman, AJS
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

For the State : MteM.CaBaruah, Public Prosecutor
For the accused : “Wr. A.K. Mahanta, Advocate
Date of Argument : 02-03-2019 &16-03-2019.
Date of Judgment : 20-03-2019.
JUDGMENT
TN The factual matrix of the prosecution case as projected in the

FIR (Ext. 1), in brief, is that about one year back from filing the FIR, taking
the advantage of absence of other family members, accused Jogeswar
Orang @ Pilu Orang committed rape on the victim (PW 3) and since then on
several occasions he by enticing in various ways and by threatening to
disclose her chastity to the villagers, used to do bad act on her near bank of
pond, jungle and under bamboo trees and thus tortured her both physically
and mentally. It is further alleged that some days prior to filing the FIR,

when the accused was committing bad act with her in her house, her uncle

 
Page 2 of 11

caught the accused red handed and lateron though the villagers assured to

settle the matter but the accused fled away.

2. On receipt of the ejahar on 11-08-2017 from the
informant/victim (PW 3) the O/C Dhekiajuli PS registered the case vide
Dhekiajuli P.S. Case No. 724/17 u/s 4/6 of POCSO Act. During investigation,
the Investigating Officer (PW 8) recorded the statement of the witnesses,
sent the victim for medical examination, got recorded her statement u/S 64
Cr.P.C. and on completion of investigation having found matéfrials “laid

chargesheet against the accused Jogeswar Orang u/s 4/6 of BOCSO Act.

3. On being appeared the accused person, beforexthis#Court, my
learned predecessor, after hearing both sides, framed charge u/s 4 of
POCSO Act against the accused Jogeswar Orang and particulars of the
charge on being read over and explained togthe accused person, he pleaded

not guilty and claimed to be tried.

4. To substantiate the €ase, prosecution examined as many as
eight number of witnesses. &nxstatement recorded u/s 313 Cr.P.C, the
accused denied all the allegations leveled against him and took the plea of
total denial. Defence examined rione.

5. I have.also heard the argument of learned counsel of both sides

and also have*gone through the evidence on record.
6. Thespoint for decision in this case is that -

(1) " Whether the accused Jogeswar Orang @ Pilu Orang prior to
one year from lodging the FIR on 11-08-2017 on several occasions
at Singimari Koch gaon under Dhekiajuli Police Station committed
penetrative sexual assault on the child victim Miss "X” and thereby
committed an offence punishable under section 4 of POCSO Act.

Reasons, Decisions and reason for decision.

7. At the outset, in will be appropriate to have a look at the
evidence on record in order to appreciate the contentions raised by the

learned counsel for the parties.

 
Page 3 of 11

8. PW 1, the mother of the victim deposed that on the day of
incident when she went to Rangapara, her victim daughter, aged about 16
years, was with her uncle (PW2). On that day, at evening time she heard
that accused coming to her house forcefully committed rape on the victim.
Then on being enquired the matter, the victim narrated that when she was
alone, the accused came to her house and by threatening raped her.
Regarding the incident, she called a village meeting where the villagers

advised her to file the case. Accordingly, her victim daughter lodged thayFiRs

During cross she stated that she had not seen thesineident. She
came to know about the incident from PW 2 first. She admitted that before
police she stated that PW 2 told her that he had seen he agcused Jogeswar
Orang with the victim in compromising position ia theyungle at the side of
the tank. She admitted that they reside in theNandeof the accused who
asked them to vacate the land but as theyXdid not vacate, hence strange
relation had grown up between them, Defence suggested that as the
accused asked them to vacate his land) hence they filed the case falsely
which she denied. She further’admitted that they did not produce any school

or birth certificate regardingxage,of the victim.

9. PW 2, the uncle “of the victim, deposed that on the day of
incident from work\when he reached home, he asked his wife whereabout of
the victim and during search, he had seen the victim with the accused going
to the side of the’ tank where the accused committed rape on the victim. He
furtherastated that at that time mother of the victim was in Rangapara and
om her arrival at home, he reported the whole incident to the victim’s
mother. Regarding this incident, they convened a village meeting but then
the accused fled away. He also stated that at the time of incident, the victim

was reading in class IX.

During cross, he stated that rape means bad act. He testified
that he had seen the accused lying upon the victim. At that time, the victim
was completely naked while the accused was wearing a shirt but without
pant. He further stated that before doing the bad act, he had seen the victim

proceeding towards tank following the accused person. He stated that at

 
Page 4 of 11

first the accused reached the place of occurrence and then victim reached
there. He admitted that witnessing the accused and the victim, he did not
raise any alarm and on suspicion, he observed them secretly. He saw that
the victim undressed herself first and became naked and thereafter, the
victim girl herself laid upon the ground. Then the accused laid upon her body
but till then he did not raise any alarm. He observed them for about 5/10
minutes. Thereafter, he informed the matter to his wife and then to ‘the
mother of the victim. He admitted about dispute between the accused and

the family of the victim.

10. PW 3 is the victim herself. She deposed that on the day of
incident when she was alone at home, accused came toxher house and
threatened that he would spoil her life. Thus the,accUsedyquite off and on
used to threaten her. Thereafter, the accused took“her to the side of the
tank and committed her rape by removing*ferclothes. At that time her uncle
PW 2 witnessed the occurrence. On, the next day, a village meeting was
convened but the accused did not¢come.Whereafter, she lodged the FIR. She
proved the FIR as Ext.1 and herstatement u/s 164 Cr.P.C. as Ext.2 and FIR
as Ext.1.

During crass she stated that rape means “beyakam”. She
admitted that it is) only*the day when her uncle saw the incident, she
indulged inesuchyactivities and other than that day, she never indulged such
sexual. activitiesewith any person. She further stated that at the time of
incident it Was dark. She had not noticed the arrival of her uncle and that he
followed them. She came to know that her uncle witnessed them at the
place’of occurrence. Thereafter on raising alarm by her uncle, 4/5 persons
gathered there. During cross, the victim also admitted that in her statement
u/s 164 Cr.P.C. she stated that she indulged in such type of activities for last
one year and it was only the day when seeing the incident, her uncle raised

alarm.

11. PW 4, the then Judicial Magistrate, 1“ class, Tezpur deposed that
on 12-08-2017 she recorded the statement of the victim u/s 164 Cr.P.C.
vide Ext.2. She proved her order dated 12-08-2017 as Ext.3.

 
Page 5 of 11

In cross-examination, she denied the suggestion that the victim

did not speak the word rape before her.

12. PW 6, Rika Engtipi, the Medical & Health Officer of TMCH,
deposed that on 14-08-2017 on examination of the victim, found old healed
tear at 9 and 3 O’ clock position in hymen and as per X-ray report sh@%is
above 16 years and below 18 years of age but no any injury mark was\seen

on her body and private part. She proved the report as Ext. 4.

During cross, she stated that the girl was habituated with sexual
intercourse. Therefore, consensus of the girl cannot be‘ruledyout.
13. PW 6 Sri Jogeswar Orang who turned hostileydeposed that a
village meeting was held on allegation of rape on\thewictim by the accused
and he was also present in the said meeting,where he came to know that

after the incident, accused fled away from his house.

During cross by defengemahe’ admitted that before police he
stated that he came to know from PW 2 that accused was caught red

handed while he committed, misdeed to the victim at the site of a tank.

14. Evidence of\PW 7 Makon Orang, the elder brother of the
accused shows,that he-heard about the incident of rape on the victim by the
accused..He*also heard that PW 2 saw the incident and caught the accused
red handed.

During cross, he stated that he heard about the incident from

the villagers, not from PW 2.

15. PW 8 Sri Surachandra Doley, the Investigating Officer, deposed
that on 11-08-2017 on receipt of an FIR, he made the GD entry being
Borsola OP GDE NO. 167 dated 11-08-2017 and forwarding the same to O/C
Dhekiajuli PS, himself started investigation of the case. He recorded the
statement of the victim and as it was night, so he sent the victim for medical
examination on the next day. He also visited the place of occurrence, drew

the sketch map of the place of occurrence vide Ext.5, recorded the

 
Page 6 of 11

statement of other witnesses, got recorded the statement of the victim u/s
164 Cr.P.C. and on completion of investigation, submitted the chargesheet
against the accused Jogeswar Orang u/s 4/6 of POCSO Act vide Ext. 6. He
confirmed the statement of hostile witness Durgeswar Orang @ Jogeswar

Orang and proved the said portion as Ext. 7.

During cross, he stated that while recording statement of witness
Durgeswar Orang, he did not state before him that he is also knoWnyas
Jogeswar Orang. He had not recorded the statement of one JogesWar Orang
as witness. He further stated that from the investigation he came te know
that there is abuse of sex for about one year. He admitted ‘that in medico
legal report, no where stated that the victim was. sexually abused or

assaulted.

16. In this case, the victim (PW3)_.and her\mother (PW 1) claimed
the age of the victim as 16 years. Though as‘per the FIR and the evidence
of the victim’s uncle (PW 2), at the time ‘ef incident, the victim was reading
in class IX but the best evidengé (Seheol Certificate) with regard to the age
of the victim was not prodticed‘er seized by the Investigating Officer to
ascertain her age. The_victim’s mother during evidence admitted that they
had not submitted “any ‘birth certificate or school certificate to the
Investigating Officer regarding the age of the victim. The victim in her
statement recorded\on 12-08-2017 mentioned her age as 16 years and after
elapse. Of two%years also she mentioned her age as 16 years. Thus no
reliance canybe placed on the statement of the prosecturix regarding age.
Ther@yis also no cogent evidence on the part of victim’s mother to indicate
that’she was a minor and the other witnesses are silent regarding age of the
victim girl. In the FIR also, age of the victim was not mentioned. It is found
that the evidence that have been brought on record to prove the age of the
victim is scanty and consists only on radiological evidence (Ext.4) as per
which the victim was above 16 and below 18 years of age. Having regard to
such material on record regarding age of the victim, the contention urged by
Mr. Mahanta is that the prosecution has not been able to prove satisfactorily

the age of the victim girl to be below 18 years on the date of occurrence.

 
Page 7 of 11

17. According to an observation in Modi’s Text Book of Medical
Jurisprudence and Toxicology, 20" Edition, radiological examination merely
indicates an average age and such age is likely to very in individual cases
even of the same province owing to eccentricities of development. Referring
to this observation, the Division Bench of Hon’ble Madras High Court in
Shanmughan Vs. The state reported in 1984 Cr.L.J. 1081 has observed that
the determination of age on the basis of radiological examination can Only.
be an approximate faster and it cannot be taken as a decisiveyand

incontrovertible feature and observed as follows :

"Courts have taken judicial notice of this factssand haye always
held that evidence afforded by radiological examination is no doubt a
useful guiding factor for determining the age of agperson, but the
evidence is not a conclusive and incontrovertible nature and is subject to
a margin of error.” As regards the margin of @rror, the Apex Court in
Jayamala Vs. Home Secretary, Govt. of J.K. reported in AIR 1982 SC
1297 also observed that mafgin\of error in age ascertained by

radiological examination Is two years on either side.”

18. In Samsul_Hoque\@ Samsul Haque @ Samsul Alam vs.
State of Assam, reported in 2005(3 ) GLT 105, the doctor who had held
the ossification test, had~opined that the age of the victim was above 16
years and belowal8\years and holding that there is a margin of error of two
years of elthereside in an ossification test, held that the victim was not a
minor’girl aad the case being voluntary elopement, the benefit must go to

the aecuseéed.

19, In the above circumstances, the age of the victim having not
been satisfactorily proved to be below 18 years, let us see, the other factual
aspect of the case. The victim who is the star witness of the case, in
deposition, stated that on the relevant day when none was present in her
house, accused coming there threatened her to spoil her life who used to
threaten her quite off and on. Thereafter, the accused took her to the side
of tank in the jungle and committed her rape by opening her clothes. Her

uncle PW 2 witnessed the said incident and a village meeting was called on

 
Page 8 of 11

the next day. So, in this case PW 2, the victim's uncle is the eye witness and
his evidence is of paramount importance to analysis the credence of the
statement of the victim. Taking the evidence of PW 2 in it’s entirety, it is
found that on that day he observed the victim while she proceeded towards
tank following the accused person. According to him, accused reached the
place of occurrence first and then the victim reached there. Seeing them, he
observed secretly so that they could not see him. His evidence also revéals
that the victim herself undressed first and then she laid upon ground and
thereafter, accused laid upon her body and till then inspite of, seeingathe
incident, he (PW 2) did not raise any alarm and observed (for about 5/10
minutes and thereafter, informed the matter to his wife anad™“then to the
victim’s mother. His evidence clearly indicates that she en her own followed
the accused towards the tank and submitted herselfito the accused. Being a
girl in the verge of majority, she can resist/the accused or raise alarm but
she did nothing. PW 2 is none other than the uncle of the victim. I find
nothing to disbelieve his evidence. Further, the victim also testified that she
had not noticed the arrival of her Uncleawho followed them, and lateron, she
came to know that her unele had seen them at the place of occurrence.
Witnessing the incident_bysPW 2)is admitted by the victim herself. Victim’s
mother PW 1 also admitted that in statement before police she stated that
the victim’s uncle (PW 2) reported her that he had seen the accused and the
victim in compromising position. The evidence of the victim that she had not
noticed Carrivalef her uncle (PW 2) that he followed them clearly indicates
that’she voluntarily followed the accused and indulged in sexual act, if any

onthe day of incident.

20; Further though the victim in FIR and in statement u/s 164
Cr.P.C. alleged that besides the day of incident, since one year the accused
on several occasions committed her rape in several places but during
deposition she stated about only one day’s incident except that the accused
quite off and on threatened to spoil her life. In cross-examination, she
clearly negates of indulging such type of act with the accused for last one
year. Again she stated that it was only the day when PW 2 saw her indulging

sexual activities. In the same breath she further stated that other than the

 
Page 9 of 11

day of incident she never indulged sexual activities with any person. She
made different version as to whether on one day or on several days she was
sexually assaulted. Though she negates habituated in sexual relation but as
per medical evidence, old healed hymeneal tear was found and doctor
opined that she was habituated in sexual intercourse. Thus appears sharp
contradiction in the evidence of the victim herself. The victim alleged that for
about one year on several occasions the accused did have sexual intercoufse
with her but till it was noticed by her uncle she remained silent\dhe
evidence of the eye witness PW 2 also reveals that on the dayewhen,PW°2
witnessed the incident, neither the victim raised alarm nor resisted the
accused rather it was the PW 2 who after observing them, for 5/0 minutes
to see what was going on, raised arlam. She did not.raise alarm when she
was committed rape. Victim’s story coupled with “the evidence of the eye

witness PW 2 is bound to turn the evidence.of the victim, doubtful.

21. In the case, the FIR indicates that the incident occurred prior to
some days of filing the FIR. Thé PWs\remained silent about the day of
incident. Prosecution also remains silent for causing delay in lodging the FIR.
When the accused was “caught “red handed while committing physical
relation , the testimony of, the Victim, the associated circumstances and the
medical evidence,.leave’a mark of doubt to treat the testimony of the victim

regarding rape,asstruthful to inspire confidence.

22. Further, though the defence side during cross of PW 1 and PW 2
took the plea of land dispute between the accused and the victim's family
but fis not acceptable in heinous crime such as rape. It is a cardinal
principle of law that the prosecution is to prove the charge beyond all
reasonable doubt by producing credible evidence against the accused and
the prosecution is to stood on it’s own legs, not on the lapse of defence
story. Though law permits that testimony of the prosecturix can be accepted
without any corroboration, for she has to be placed on a higher pedestals
that one injured witness but on studied scrutiny of the evidence of the victim
in this case, it is difficult to accept her version. Her evidence does not inspire

confidence of this court. The evidence of the victim suffer from

 
Page 10 of 11

inconsistencies on material particulars and the same is not found of sterling
quality. The prosecution case being clouded with shadow of doubt, has lost
the authenticity as regards the charge. The cumulative effects of all
evidence on record is that the prosecution case remain doubtful.

23. While absence of raising alarm or delay in FIR may not by itself
be enough to disbelieve the version of the prosecutrix in view of statutory
presumption u/s 114 A of the Evidence Act but if such statement credtes
doubt, the same may not be acted upon. I am conscious of the sensitivity
with which heinous offence of rape has to be treated but in the present ease
when prosecution failed to prove that the victim is below 18 years,of age,
the evidence of the victim and her uncle, the eye witnessa(PW 2)=*taken as a
whole coupled with the medical evidence create doubt about the correctness
of prosecution version regarding rape, rather it shows that she indulged into
consensus sexual conduct and it cannot be said as a\case of rape. Therefore,

I am of the opinion that the accused is entitled*to benefit of doubt.

24. Accordingly, accused@Jugeswar Orang is acquitted from the
charge u/s 4 of POCSO Act and, sethim at liberty forthwith. His bail bond

shall remain in force till nextesixemonths.

25. Given under my\Hand and Seal of this Court on this the 20" day
of March, 2019.

(I.Barman)
Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictated and corrected by me.

(I.Barman)

Sessions Judge,
Sonitpur, Tezpur.

Dictation taken and transcribed by me:

Smt. R. Hazarika, Steno.

 
fe he

at GN Ga

Page 11 of 11

APPENDIX

Prosecution Witness

Prosecution Witness No.1
Prosecution Witness No.2
Prosecution Witness No.3
Prosecution Witness No.4

Prosecution Witness No.5
Prosecution Witness No.6
Prosecution Witness No.7

Prosecution Witness No.8

ie Mother of the victim

- Uncle of the victim

: Victim

- Smti B. Khakhlary, JM class
Magistrate.

- Dr. Rika Engtipi.

i Sri Jogeswar Orangt

7. Makon Orang,

‘ Sri SurchandrayDoley, I.O.

EXHIBITS.
Exhibit 1 : FIR.
Exhibit 2 164 Cr.P.Gastatement of the victim.
Exhibit 3 orderdated 12-08-2017.
Exhibit 4 Medical report.
Exhibit,5 sketch map
Exhibit 6 Chargesheet.
Exhibit’7 Relevant portion of statement of

witness Durgeswar Orang @ Jugeswar Orang.

(I.Barman)
SESSIONS JUDGE,
SONITPUR: TEZPUR
